One-night stand - WikipediaOne-night stand From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Brief sexual relationship For other uses, see One-night stand (disambiguation). Not to be confused with nightstand. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (October 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article may be unbalanced towards certain viewpoints. Please improve the article by adding information on neglected viewpoints, or discuss the issue on the talk page. (October 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) A one-night stand is a single sexual encounter in which there is an expectation that there shall be no further relations between the sexual participants. The practice can be described as "sexual activity without emotional commitment or future involvement".[1] Contents 1 Views 2 Further relations 3 Fantasy 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Views[edit] See also: Fornication The one-night stand is the most common form of infidelity[1] and is often used in research, polls and surveys to define the level of promiscuity in a society at any given time.[2] It has also been suggested that such an act can be as threatening to a relationship as a long-term affair: A one-night stand can be more dangerous than finding a lover with mutual considerations. This scenario is good for the business traveler who has the odds in his or her favor; however, it is very important to know with whom you are getting into bed, even for just one night. No one should be exempt from causing you a problem, no matter the distance or circumstance. A one-night stand is still a form of infidelity and can be just as damaging for you and your partner if discovered.[3] Some women have suggested that women who feel sexually insecure or unfulfilled should seek out one-night stands for personal growth and fulfillment. One writes, "[a] one-night stand is the erotic manifestation of carpe diem— only we are seizing the night instead of the day".[4] Another source advises women seeking empowerment to "jumpstart your heyday by having a one-night stand",[5] and clarifies that the one-night stand should be a conscious decision.[5] The prevalence of one-night stands has been abetted by the advent of online dating apps such as Tinder and Grindr, which allow people to connect for purposes including sexual encounters, although these tools can also be used to seek longer-term relationship partners.[6] Further relations[edit] Relationship therapist Laura Berman suggests that the circumstances that lead to such an encounter do not necessarily preclude a later relationship: Certainly, having sex on a first date can be a death knell if your partner decides that a one-night stand is all he is after. On the other hand, many happy couples broke that rule of no sex on the first date and have been together for years.[7] In contrast to a one-night stand, when the individuals involved have recurrent sexual contact without romantic involvement, this is considered a casual sexual relationship.[8][9][10] Fantasy[edit] A one-night stand may also be included in a sexual fantasy.[11] See also[edit] Anonymous sex Casual sex Cottaging Group sex Hookup culture Quickie (sexual act) References[edit] ^ a b Jeffrey S. Turner, American Families in Crisis: A Reference Handbook (2009), p. 47. ^ "Liverpool named UK's most promiscuous city in 'one night stand' poll". Metro.co.uk. Associated Newspapers Limited. ^ J. Frances, Joann Perrino, Designing Infidelity: A Reference Guide to the Art of Cheating to Perfection (2006), p. 4. ^ Susan Cheever, "Sex With a Stranger", in Erica Jong, Sugar in My Bowl: Real Women Write About Real Sex (2011), p. 35. ^ a b Jodi Lipper, Cerina Vincent, Live Like a Hot Chick: How to Feel Sexy, Find Confidence, and Create Balance at Work and Play (2010), p. 167. ^ Laura Palmer, "Dating in the Age of Tinder: Swiping for Love?", in Julia Carter and Lorena Arocha, eds., Romantic Relationships in a Time of ‘Cold Intimacies’ (2020), p. 129-149. ^ Laura Berman, It's Not Him, It's You!: How to Take Charge of Your Life and Create the Love and Intimacy You Deserve (2010), p. 132. ^ Casual Sex, Explained (and Defined) — The Good Men Project Magazine. Goodmenproject.com (2010-08-04). Retrieved on 2011-04-28. ^ Casual Sex Archived 2011-05-05 at the Wayback Machine. Avert.org (2005-12-11). Retrieved on 2011-04-28. ^ Casual sex in college. Generally Thinking. Retrieved on 2011-04-28. ^ "Fantasies fulfilled, one night at a time". The Sydney Morning Herald. March 28, 2014. External links[edit] Look up one-night stand in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. v t e Human sexuality and sexology Sexual relationship phenomena Asexuality Gray asexuality Bisexuality Casual relationship Casual sex Celibacy Celibacy syndrome Herbivore men Committed relationship Conventional sex Free love Foreplay Heterosexuality Homosexuality Hypersexuality Marriage One-night stand Polyamory Promiscuity Female Romantic love Romantic orientation Flirting Sex life Sexual abstinence Sexual orientation Sexual partner Single person Swinging Sexual dynamics Hypergamy Physical attractiveness Sexual attraction Sexual capital Sexual ethics Sexual frustration Sociosexuality See also Sexual addiction Sex Addicts Anonymous Sexual jealousy Sex-positive movement Sexual surrogate v t e Interpersonal relationships Types Romantic Boyfriend Girlfriend Cohabitation Significant other Domestic partnership Same-sex relationship Monogamy Marriage Husband Wife Soulmate Widowhood Non-monogamy Open relationship Open marriage Polyamory Polyfidelity Polygamy Concubinage Mistress Casual sex Casual dating Friends with benefits Enjo kōsai Sexual partner One-night stand Courtesan Gigolo Sugar baby/Sugar daddy/Sugar momma Non-romantic Platonic love Kinship Family Siblings Friendship Enemy Stranger Acquaintance Historical Cicisbeo Seraglio Plaçage Marriage à la façon du pays Royal mistress Royal favorite Maîtresse-en-titre Romantic friendship Events Bonding Courtship Dating Mating Romance Breakup Annulment Divorce Separation Legal Marital Meet market Singles event Wedding Emotions Affinity Attachment Compersion Intimacy Jealousy Limerence Love Passion Unconditional love Practices Bride price Dower Dowry Gold digging Hypergamy Infidelity Repression Sexual activity Transgression Abuse Child abuse Dating violence Domestic violence Elder abuse Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=One-night_stand&oldid=1064495663" Categories: Casual sex Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles that may contain original research from October 2019 All articles that may contain original research Articles needing more viewpoints from October 2019 Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Беларуская Deutsch Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk 한국어 हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska עברית Bahasa Melayu Nederlands Norsk bokmål Română Русский Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 8 January 2022, at 17:36 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement