Mundo Estranho - WikipediaMundo Estranho From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For the film, see The Goddess of Rio Beni. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Mundo Estranho" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Mundo Estranho Editor Fabio Volpe Frequency Monthly Circulation nearly 130,000 First issue August 2001 Final issue August 2018 Company Editora Abril Country Brazil Language Portuguese Website mundoestranho.abril.com.br (last version archived) Mundo Estranho (literally "Strange World" in Portuguese), first issued November 2001, was a monthly diversities and fun facts magazine, very popular among Brazilian teenagers and one of the country's most popular magazine of its type. It started as a section in the more popular Superinteressante magazine, but was already a separate paperback a few months after its first issue, later converted to a full-fledged separate magazine. Contents 1 As a section in Superinteressante (2001–2002) 2 As a separate magazine (2002–2018) 3 Sections 4 Mundo Estranho Hot 5 References 6 External links As a section in Superinteressante (2001–2002)[edit] During its first two years, the magazine was a special issue from Superinteressante, an influential scientific magazine in Brazil. Mundo Estranho's content was more scientific. The magazine's team worked together with Superinteressante's team. With Mundo Estranho's popularity rising up, the Superinteressante's chief-editors decided to separate a special team exclusively for it, and publish it as an independent magazine. Some modifications were made with the magazine's structure and its logo. As a separate magazine (2002–2018)[edit] With a separate team and very popular for its use of informal language and good relationship with the readers, instead of exclusively scientifically-correct articles, Mundo Estranho now featured curiosities about music, video games and movies, and answers reader questions. On August 6, 2018, Editora Abril announced the discontinuation of the magazine, along with nine more titles.[1][2] Sections[edit] After its 70th issue (December 2007), Mundo Estranho made small modifications to its structure. The sections are as follows: Caixa de Correio: a section with letters from the magazine's readers Presentão da Mundo Estranho (literally Mundo Estranho's Big Gift): magazine's sales promotions ME Digital: two pages with news from the magazine's website and readers' best comments in the magazine's social networks and sales promotions for mobile phones, smartphones, books and video games Duel: it is a competition between any two subjects. The magazine's team establishes five topics for each duel and compares the weak and the strong points, later deciding who wins, with the possibility of a tie. Some fights featuring famous characters or franchises were partially voted by the readers, like Harry Potter X The Lord of the Rings, Gandalf X Professor Dumbledore, Bill Gates X Carlos Slim and X-Men X The Avengers Super-Career: this is a bimonthly topic which is alternated with the topic "Interchange". It shows a description of uncommon jobs (like "grave digger") and gives hints to help the reader to follow these careers Interchange: this is a bimonthly topic which is alternated with the topic "Super-Career". It describes life in remote countries, like Mauritania, Bangladesh or Bulgaria. Top 10: a list of ten items about any topic, like "The 10 Richest Teenagers in the World" or "The 10 Most Notorious Serial-Killers" Perguntas e Resposta: it is the magazine's largest section, usually with more than 20 pages. It contains a series of questions sent by the readers, like "How is a pencil made?", "How does the Vacuum Bomb works?" or "What is the biggest star in the Universe?" Curto e Grosso (literally Portuguese for "short and thick": short questions and short answers As clássicas: common questions whose answers are not commonly known, like "How were the Egyptian Pyramids made?" The Book is on the Table: about books Tech: the latest news about technology Games: as the title says, its only about games and their famous "cheat codes" Cinema e TV: curiosities about movies and TV programs Contando Ninguém Acredita: Unusual stories from around the world Mundo Estranho Hot[edit] ME Hot is a division of Mundo Estranho. It follows the same structure as the main magazine, but with questions and curiosities only about sex. It was created after some criticised articles about sex in Mundo Estranho's articles, so the magazine's team decided to create a separate division for that purpose and exclude all the articles about sex from Mundo Estranho. References[edit] ^ "Abril encerra dez títulos; Veja, Exame e Claudia ficam". 2018-08-06. Retrieved 2018-08-06. ^ "Abril demite 500 jornalistas e praticamente fecha as portas". Revista Fórum. 2018-08-06. Retrieved 2018-08-06. External links[edit] Mundo Estranho Official Website ME Hot Official Website Editora Abril Official Website Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mundo_Estranho&oldid=987237409" Categories: 2001 establishments in Brazil Magazines published in Brazil Monthly magazines published in Brazil Entertainment magazines Grupo Abril Magazines disestablished in 2018 Magazines established in 2001 Portuguese-language magazines Teen magazines Defunct magazines published in Brazil Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from November 2010 All articles needing additional references Pages using infobox magazine with unsupported parameters Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Português Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 5 November 2020, at 19:49 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement