[VIDEO] ‘Friends’ Reunion Special: First Look At Full Cast On HBO Max | TVLine× TVLine Categories Euphoria March Streaming Guide Awards Watch Renewal Scorecards Trending Shows Euphoria 1883 Reacher Bridgerton And Just Like That... The Book of Boba Fett How I Met Your Father Marvelous Mrs. Maisel Peacemaker Yellowjackets Evil This Is Us Power Book IV: Force Tyler Perry's Sistas Succession Ted Lasso Reviews Winning Time Inventing Anna The Gilded Age How I Met Your Father Peacemaker Sex and the City revival The Wheel of Time Only Murders in the Building Trending Shows Euphoria 1883 Reacher Bridgerton And Just Like That... The Book of Boba Fett How I Met Your Father Marvelous Mrs. Maisel Peacemaker Yellowjackets Evil This Is Us Power Book IV: Force Tyler Perry's Sistas Succession Ted Lasso Reviews Winning Time Inventing Anna The Gilded Age How I Met Your Father Peacemaker Sex and the City revival The Wheel of Time Only Murders in the Building Euphoria March Streaming Guide Awards Watch Renewal Scorecards Friends Reunion Special Gets May Premiere Date on HBO Max — First Look By Andy Swift / May 13 2021, 10:00 AM PDT 51 Share This Article Tumblr Reddit LinkedIn Pin It WhatsApp Print Anyone in the mood to catch up with some old Friends? Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer’s long-awaited Friends reunion special will premiere on Thursday, May 27, HBO Max announced Thursday. In addition, the streaming site has blessed us with a teaser (see top of post) for the epic streaming event 17 years in the making. The unscripted event will offer an emotional look back at the Emmy winning series, which originally ran from 1994 to 2004 on NBC. All six cast members are executive-producing the special, along with original series EPs Kevin Bright, Marta Kauffman and David Crane, as well as Ben Winston (The Late Late Show With James Corden), who is on board to direct. The special was shot on Stage 24, on the Warner Bros. Studio lot in Burbank, Calif. Guests will include: David Beckham, Justin Bieber, BTS, James Corden, Cindy Crawford, Cara Delevingne, Lady Gaga, Elliott Gould, Kit Harington, Larry Hankin, Mindy Kaling, Thomas Lennon, Christina Pickles, Tom Selleck, James Michael Tyler, Maggie Wheeler, Reese Witherspoon and Malala Yousafzai. Friends Pairings (Every Possible Combo), Ranked From Worst to Best Launch List For those who haven’t been keeping up with the reunion special’s progress, it was originally supposed to premiere in May 2020, coinciding with the launch of HBO Max. Unfortunately, the coronavirus pandemic (maybe you’ve heard of her?) forced production to be delayed several times since then. “Guess you could call this ‘The One Where They All Got Back Together,'” Kevin Reilly, then-CCO of HBO Max (and president of TBS, TNT, and truTV), said in statement when the reunion was first announced. “I became aware of Friends when it was in the very early stages of development and then had the opportunity to work on the series many years later and have delighted in seeing it catch on with viewers generation after generation. It taps into an era when friends — and audiences — gathered together in real time, and we think this reunion special will capture that spirit, uniting original and new fans.” This reunion will mark the first time all six Friends have been together on screen since the show wrapped. Five were on hand for NBC’s 2016 tribute to director James Burrows, but Perry was doing a play in London and was unable to join the others. On a scale from one to seven (seven… seven… SEVEN!), how excited are you about the Friends gang finally reuniting? And after all these years, which burning questions are you hoping the cast will answer? Whatever’s on your mind, drop a comment below and let us know. If you like TVLine, you'll LOVE our email news alerts! Click here to subscribe. Add a Comment TAGS: Friends, HBO Max GET MORE: First Look, Friends, Retro TV x JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... Editorial March Streaming Guide: Netflix, Disney+, HBO Max, Hulu & More Today's Hottest Stories 1FBI: Most Wanted EP Breaks Down Julian McMahon's Final Episode, Says Jess' Shocking Exit Was… 2This Is Us Recap: As the End Draws Nearer, Rebecca Makes a Crucial Choice 3The Bachelor Recap: Clayton's in Love With Everyone — and Things Get Ugly 4RuPaul's Drag Race UK vs. the World: Did the Right Queen Win Season 1? 5Superman & Lois Team Apologizes for That Latest Tragedy: 'Yeah, I Felt Bad!' (But They're Also Pretty… What to Watch Today 03:00 A M The Andy Warhol Diaries 3:00 A M The Last Kingdom 3:00 A M Pam & Tommy 8:00 P M The Flash Full Story Most Commented 1Walking Dead Spinoff Centered on Negan and Maggie Greenlit by AMC107 2FBI: Most Wanted EP Breaks Down Julian McMahon's Final Episode, Says…90 3Teen Wolf Movie Update: Ian Bohen 'Feels Positive' That We'll See…54 4This Is Us Recap: As the End Draws Nearer, Rebecca Makes a Crucial…54 5Tyler Perry's Sistas' Chido Nwokocha Explains Why Gary's Good Looks…38 Second Annual Cinema Week Set To Kick Off This Fall March Madness Ads Sell Out as Hype, Hoops Royalty Return to… Amy Schumer Opens Up About 'Barbie' Creative Split: Studio… Jake Paltrow's Ukraine-Shot Adolf Eichmann Pic 'June Zero'… The FDA Has FINALLY Approved a Condom For Anal Sex: Here Are 5… About Us Accessibility Statement Advertise Contact Us Newsletter Terms of Use Privacy Policy AdChoices EU Privacy Preferences California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information The Power of Content TVLine is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2022 TVLine Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. PMC Entertainment Powered by WordPress VIP ad