The One After Ross Says Rachel - WikipediaThe One After Ross Says Rachel From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 1st episode of the fifth season of Friends "The One After Ross Says Rachel" Friends episode Episode no. Season 5 Episode 1 Directed by Kevin S. Bright Written by Seth Kurland Production code 467651 Original air date September 24, 1998 (1998-09-24) Guest appearances Helen Baxendale as Emily Waltham Tom Conti as Stephen Waltham Peter Eyre as Registrar Elliott Gould as Jack Geller Christina Pickles as Judy Geller Jennifer Saunders as Andrea Waltham Episode chronology ← Previous "The One with Ross's Wedding" Next → "The One with All the Kissing" Friends (season 5) List of episodes "The One After Ross Says Rachel" is the first episode of Friends' fifth season, and the 98th episode overall. It first aired on NBC in the United States on September 24, 1998. Contents 1 Plot 2 Production 3 Reception 3.1 Ratings 3.2 Reviews 4 References 5 External links Plot[edit] After Ross accidentally says Rachel's name instead of Emily's during their wedding vows, a livid Emily agrees to continue with the ceremony but locks herself in the bathroom at their wedding reception, refusing to accept Ross' continual apologies. When Rachel talks to Ross about what has happened they agree that his saying "Rachel" was just a mistake, and there are no underlying romantic feelings. After realizing that Emily has escaped out the bathroom window, Ross searches for her in vain before deciding to wait for her at their hotel room. Instead, Emily's parents come to collect her things, and Ross convinces Mr Waltham (Tom Conti) to give Emily a message to meet him at the airport for their honeymoon. Meanwhile, Monica and Chandler are afraid their friendship may suffer following their night together before resolving to only continue a sexual relationship whilst in London for the wedding. However their efforts to have another sexual encounter are continually disrupted by others and they return to New York City alongside Joey without having had sex again. Once in New York they are reunited with a heavily pregnant Phoebe and, despite their agreement, Chandler and Monica decide to continue sleeping together, justifying that they are still on "London time". At the airport Rachel is still trying to get a flight back to New York, and runs into Ross who is still hoping that Emily will come and join him on their flight to Athens for their honeymoon. After Emily fails to show before the final boarding call Ross asks Rachel if she would like to come with him to Athens, since he does not want to be alone. She agrees, and the two are just about to board the plane when Ross notices Emily, who had just arrived. Emily, having seen Rachel board, leaves again and Ross tries to catch her in the airport, leaving Rachel on the flight to Athens by herself. Production[edit] Helen Baxendale reprised her role as Emily Waltham in this episode. "The One After Ross Says Rachel" was written by Seth Kurland and directed by series executive producer Kevin S. Bright. The episode originally aired in the United States on September 24, 1998, on NBC as the season premiere episode of the show's fifth season and the 98th overall episode of the series. Helen Baxendale reprised her role as Emily Waltham, while Tom Conti and Jennifer Saunders reprise guest appearances as her parents, Stephen and Andrea Waltham. Elliott Gould and Christina Pickles also appear as their recurring characters Jack and Judy Geller. Baxendale's role was originally intended to extend longer in the series, however due to her pregnancy she was written out by producers after deciding to leave the series to focus on her family.[citation needed] Reception[edit] Ratings[edit] In its original American broadcast, "The One After Ross Says Rachel" finished second in ratings for the week of September 21–27, 1998, according to Nielsen Media Research, with an overall 20.0 rating/33 share, equivalent to approximately 31.1 million viewing households.[1][2] It was the second-highest rated show on the NBC network that week after ER.[1] Although these figures represented a slight decrease on the two-part fourth-season finale which attracted 31.6 million viewers, it was an increase in viewership in comparison with the fourth-season premiere figures of 29.4 million viewers,[3] and was the highest rated episode of the fifth season.[2] Reviews[edit] Entertainment Weekly rated the episode "A" in its review of the fifth season, particularly praising the performance of David Schwimmer by highlighting how "The screwed-up nuptials give Schwimmer a chance to be at his puppy-dog-pathetic best".[4] It also cited how Monica and Chandler's "hilariously horny adventures... add another layer of comic franticness" and Judy Geller's line of "This is worse than when he married the lesbian" in reference to the events of Ross' wedding is highlighted as the best of the episode.[4] Colin Jacobson of DVD Movie Guide likened elements of the episode to a soap opera but that it still "proves amusing" as "It fails to bog down in those components and favors comedy instead."[5] Schwimmer's "meltdown" performance is stated as being "always funny to watch" and "the constant problems suffered by Monica and Chandler add to the hijinks." Jacobson's overall impression of the episode was that it launched the season "on a positive note".[5] References[edit] ^ a b "Week's TV ratings". San Francisco Chronicle. September 30, 1998. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved January 2, 2013. ^ a b Ginsburg, Dan. "Season Five". Friends Nielsen Ratings Archive. Archived from the original on September 13, 2012. Retrieved January 2, 2013. ^ Ginsburg, Dan. "Season Four". Friends Nielsen Ratings Archive. Archived from the original on September 13, 2012. Retrieved January 2, 2013. ^ a b "Review: Season 5 (1998–99)". Entertainment Weekly. September 15, 2001. Retrieved January 2, 2013. ^ a b Jacobson, Colin. "Friends: The Complete Fifth Season (1998)". DVD Movie Guide. Archived from the original on October 6, 2012. Retrieved January 2, 2013. External links[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: The One After Ross Says Rachel "The One After Ross Says Rachel" at IMDb v t e Friends episodes Season 1 "The Pilot" "The One with the Sonogram at the End" "The One with the Thumb" "The One with George Stephanopoulos" "The One with the Blackout" "The One with the Monkey" "The One Where the Monkey Gets Away" "The One with the Fake Monica" "The One Where Rachel Finds Out" Season 2 "The One with Ross's New Girlfriend" "The One with Russ" "The One with the Lesbian Wedding" "The One After the Superbowl" "The One with the Prom Video" "The One Where Dr. Ramoray Dies" "The One with Barry and Mindy's Wedding" Season 3 "The One with the Princess Leia Fantasy" "The One Where No One's Ready" "The One with the Flashback" "The One with the Football" "The One with the Morning After" "The One at the Beach" Season 4 "The One with the Jellyfish" "The One with the Cat" "The One with the Embryos" "The One with Ross's Wedding" Season 5 "The One After Ross Says Rachel" "The One Hundredth" "The One with All the Thanksgivings" "The One Where Everybody Finds Out" "The One with the Girl Who Hits Joey" "The One with the Cop" "The One Where Rachel Smokes" "The One Where Ross Can't Flirt" "The One with the Ride-Along" "The One with Joey's Big Break" "The One in Vegas" Season 6 "The One After Vegas" "The One Where Ross Got High" "The One with the Apothecary Table" "The One with Unagi" "The One with the Proposal" Season 7 "The One with Monica's Thunder" "The One with All the Candy" "The One with All the Cheesecakes" "The One Where They're Up All Night" "The One with Ross and Monica's Cousin" "The One with Monica and Chandler's Wedding" Season 8 "The One After 'I Do'" "The One with Rachel's Date" "The One with the Halloween Party" "The One with the Rumor" "The One Where Rachel Has a Baby" Season 9 "The One Where No One Proposes" "The One with Ross's Inappropriate Song" "The One with Rachel's Dream" "The One in Barbados" Season 10 "The One After Joey and Rachel Kiss" "The One Where Ross Is Fine" "The One with Ross's Tan" "The One with Phoebe's Wedding" "The Last One" Specials Friends: The Reunion Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_One_After_Ross_Says_Rachel&oldid=1053019866" Categories: Friends (season 5) episodes 1998 American television episodes Television episodes set in London Television episodes about weddings Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from April 2012 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2020 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Gaeilge Edit links This page was last edited on 1 November 2021, at 12:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement