Behind the scenes | FRIENDS | TV2 | tvnz.co.nz46 captures 06 Nov 2005 - 12 Feb 2022 Oct FEB Jun 03 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090203061651/http://tvnz.co.nz:80/view/page/488124/415695 
			Behind the scenes | FRIENDS | TV2 | tvnz.co.nz
		 TVNZ Home Auckland:High: 00Low: 00Change Location Make TVNZ my Homepage Contact Us Register or Login News & Current Affairs Shows News Sport TV ONE TV2 TVNZ 6 TVNZ 7 Ondemand Lifestyle About TVNZ TV2 Home What's On Shows A-Z Shortland Street 2 Kids Movies Downloads FAQ Competitions Friends Home Behind the scenes Print | Send to friend | Email update Kevin S. Bright (Executive Producer) Kevin S. Bright began his career in New York City with the Joseph Cates Company, where he produced variety specials starring David Copperfield, George Burns, Dolly Parton and Johnny Cash. He later moved to Los Angeles, where he produced for HBO the CableACE Award-winning series "The History of White People in America." At HBO, he also produced comedy specials for Robin Williams, Martin Mull, Paul Shaffer and Harry Shearer. In 1989, Bright received an Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series while serving as supervising producer on the hit show "In Living Color." In that same year, Bright began his relationship with Marta Kauffman and David Crane as executive producer on the popular HBO series "Dream On," which won a 1992 CableACE Award for Best Comedy Series. In 1990, he also served as executive producer of the critically acclaimed "Ron Reagan Show." In 1993, Bright entered into a partnership with Kauffman and Crane to form Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions and began a development deal with Warner Bros. Television, where the company has gone on to produce the comedy series "Friends," "Veronica's Closet" and, most recently, "Jesse." Continuing as a top-rated series, "Friends" received two People's Choice Awards for Favorite Television Comedy Series (1999-2000 and 2000-2001) and also won the award in its first season (1994-95) for Best New Comedy Series. In eight successful seasons, "Friends" has received 44 Emmy Award nominations and six Golden Globe Award nominations. In addition to his work as a producer, Bright's credits include directing numerous episodes of "Dream On," "Friends," "Veronica's Closet" and "Jesse." Bright resides in Los Angeles with his wife, Claudia, and their twin sons, Justin and Zachary. David Crane and Marta Kauffman (Creators/Executive Producers) David Crane and Marta Kauffman, creators and executive producers of the top-rated and Emmy Award-nominated series "Friends" and "Veronica's Closet," have been writing partners for more than 20 years. They have become so familiar with each other that they tend to finish the other's sentences. Previously, they created and served as co-executive producers on the critically acclaimed, award-winning comedy series "Dream On." While on "Dream On," they received an Emmy Award nomination and a CableACE Award for writing the episode "For Peter's Sake." Crane and Kauffman also created for Norman Lear the comedy series "The Powers That Be," starring John Forsythe, David Hyde Pierce and Holland Taylor. Crane and Kauffman also created and served as executive producers on the comedy series "Family Album" and "Veronica's Closet," starring Kirstie Alley. In addition, they served as executive producers on the series "Jesse," starring Christina Applegate. Both Philadelphia natives, Crane and Kauffman began their writing careers at Brandeis University. They began their working relationship in the theatre in New York, where they teamed with composer Michael Skloff to write several musicals, including the stage version of the movie "Arthur." They also co-wrote the book and lyrics for the widely acclaimed musical "Personals," for which they received an Outer Critics Circle Award and a Drama Desk Award nomination. A new production of "Personals" recently played in London's West End. Crane and Kauffman contributed musical and sketch material to the off-Broadway revues "A...My Name is Alice" and "Martin Charnin's Upstairs at O'Neals." Kauffman lives in Los Angeles with her husband, Michael Skloff; her three children, Hannah, Sam and Rose; four horses; two dogs; and two cats. She has been named one of the 25 most influential mothers by Working Mother magazine. Crane lives in Los Angeles with his companion, television writer and producer Jeffrey Klarik. Crane and Larry Coen co-wrote the play "Epic Proportions," which was recently produced on Broadway. Shana Goldberg-Meehan (Executive Producer) Shana Goldberg-Meehan began her career as a staff writer on the successful comedy "Mad About You" with her former writing partner Scott Silveri. In 1996, they were hired as story editors on "Friends." Now writing on her own, she has been promoted to her current position as executive producer of the series. Goldberg-Meehan grew up in Los Angeles and attended Harvard University. Scott Silveri (Executive Producer) Scott Silveri has worked in television for seven years, beginning on the comedy "Mad About You." Along with his then writing partner, Shana Goldberg-Meehan, Silveri joined the writing staff of "Friends" in 1996 and is currently an executive producer of the show. He grew up in Yonkers, New York, and studied at Harvard University. Andrew Reich and Ted Cohen (Executive Producers) Writing partners Andrew Reich and Ted Cohen started their careers in 1995 as staff writers on the comedy series "Minor Adjustments" and followed that by becoming story editors on the sitcom "Mr. Rhodes." They joined "Friends" in 1997 as executive story editors and worked their way up the writing ranks to their current executive producer positions during the 2001-2002 season. Shows See the full list of TV2 Shows 20/20 According to Jim The Amazing Race American Idol The Big Bang Theory Britannia High The Catherine Tate Show Curb Your Enthusiasm Desperate Housewives Endurance Extreme Makeover: Home Edition Fear Factor Friends The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air Go Girls Grey's Anatomy Half Ton Hospital High School Confidential Hole in the Wall Home Improvement Hope and Faith I AM TV In Case of Emergency Just Shoot Me Laguna Beach Less Than Perfect Lincoln Heights Lost Lotto McLeod's Daughters MI High Moonlight My Wife and Kids Ned and Stacey Neighbours October Road Out Of The Blue Pirate Master Samantha Who? Seinfeld Shortland Street Smallville Supernanny Supernatural Surf Club 174 Ticket to the Tribes Two and a Half Men Tyra They're back! Desperate Housewives returns soon! Play the game, take the quiz and watch videos How would you want your news? Email Choose the news you want when you want it, all in one personalised daily e-mail. Mobile TVNZ is available on mobile phones, PDAs and other wireless handheld devices. Gadgets Get all the latest news and sports headlines delivered straight to your desktop. News Feeds See when TVNZ have added new content. You can get the latest headlines anywhere. Podcasts Enjoy TVNZ on the move - a wide range of programmes and highlights are available. Copyright © 2008, Television New Zealand Limited About TVNZ Inside TVNZ Careers Media Releases Your TV Digital TV / Freeview Submit a Programme Idea Make a Formal Complaint TV Advertising Website Advertising Programme Partnerships TV Licensing Request Footage TVNZ Broadcasting Services Contact Us TVNZ News National World Business Politics Weather Entertainment Health Technology TravelWatch Sport Contact TVNZ News TVNZ Entertainment Catch Up Shows A-Z TV ONE TV2 TVNZ 6 TVNZ 7 Schedule / TV Listings Shortland Street Good Morning Supernanny About TVNZ Website Advertising TV Advertising FAQs Contact Us Terms of Use Competition Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy TV Listings