Professional golfer - WikipediaProfessional golfer From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Golfer with professional status; ordinarily cannot play in amateur tournaments This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Professional golfer" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Tiger Woods hitting a drive in 2007. A professional golfer is somebody who receives payments or financial rewards in the sport of golf that are directly related to their skill or reputation. Also a person who earns money by teaching or playing golf is traditionally considered a "golf pro," most of whom are teachers/coaches. The professional golfer status is reserved for people who play, rather than teach, golf for a career.[1] In golf, the distinction between amateurs and professionals is rigorously maintained. An amateur who breaches the rules of amateur status may lose their amateur status. A golfer who has lost their amateur status may not play in amateur competitions until amateur status has been reinstated; a professional may not play in amateur tournaments unless the Committee is notified, acknowledges and confirms the participation. It is very difficult for a professional to regain their amateur status; simply agreeing not to take payment for a particular tournament is not enough. A player must apply to the governing body of the sport to have amateur status reinstated. Contents 1 History 2 Rules 2.1 PGA of America 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] Historically, the distinction between amateur and professional golfers had much to do with social class. In 18th and 19th century Britain, golf was played by the rich, for pleasure. The early professionals were working-class men who made a living from the game in a variety of ways: caddying, greenkeeping, clubmaking, and playing challenge matches. When golf arrived in America at the end of the 19th century, it was an elite sport there, too. Early American golf clubs imported their professionals from Britain. It was not possible to make a living solely from playing tournament golf until some way into the 20th century (Walter Hagen is sometimes considered to have been the first man to have done so). In the developed world, the class distinction is now almost entirely irrelevant. Golf is affordable at public courses to a large portion of the population, and most golf professionals are from middle-class backgrounds, which are often the same sort of backgrounds as the members of the clubs where they work or the people they teach the game, and educated to university level. Leading tournament golfers are very wealthy; upper class in the modern U.S. usage of the term. However, in some developing countries, there is still a class distinction. Often golf is restricted to a much smaller and more elite section of society than is the case in countries like the United States and the United Kingdom. Professional golfers from these countries are quite often from poor backgrounds and start their careers as caddies, for example, Ángel Cabrera of Argentina, and Zhang Lian-wei who is the first significant tournament professional from the People's Republic of China. In various countries, Professional Golfers' Associations (PGAs) serve either or both of these categories of professionals. There are separate LPGAs (Ladies Professional Golf Associations) for women. Rules[edit] Under the rules of golf and amateur status, except for hole in one prizes, the maximum value of a prize an amateur can accept is £500,[1] or $750.[2] If an amateur accepts a prize of greater than this they forfeit their amateur status, and are therefore by definition a professional golfer. Professional golfers are divided into two main groups, with a limited amount of overlap between them: The great majority of professional golfers make their living from teaching the game, running golf clubs and courses, and dealing in golf equipment. In golf pro refers to individuals involved in the service of other golfers. The senior professional golfer at a golf club is usually referred to as the club professional, but at a large golf club or resort with several courses his job title is likely to be director of golf. If they have assistants who are registered professional golfers, they are known as assistant professionals. A golfer who concentrates wholly or nearly so on giving golf lessons is a teaching professional, golf instructor or golf coach. Most of these people will enter a few tournaments against their peers each year, and occasionally they may qualify to play in important tournaments with the other group of professional golfers mentioned below. Many club and teaching professionals working in the golf industry start as caddies, or a general interest in the game, finding employment at golf courses and eventually moving on to certifications in their chosen profession. These programs include independent institutions and universities, and those that eventually lead to a Class A golf professional certification. Note that the USGA defines "instruction" strictly as teaching the physical aspects of golf. Instruction in the psychological aspects of the game is explicitly excluded from this definition.[3] A much smaller but higher profile group of professional golfers earn a living from playing in golf tournaments, or aspire to do so. Their income comes from prize money, and sometimes, even endorsements. These individuals are referred to as tournament pros, tour professionals, or pro golfers.[4] PGA of America[edit] In the United States, the PGA of America has 31 distinct member classifications for professionals. Many of the classifications also have corresponding apprenticeship positions.[5] Member Classification Apprentice Classification Description A-1 B-1 Head Professional at a PGA Recognized Golf Course A-2 B-2 Head Professional at a PGA Recognized Golf Range A-3 N/A Exempt PGA Tour, PGA Tour Champions, Korn Ferry Tour, LPGA Tour and Symetra Tour players A-4 B-4 Director of Golf at PGA Recognized Golf Facilities A-5 N/A Past Presidents of the Association A-6 B-6 Golf Instructor at a PGA Recognized Facility A-7 B-7 Head Professional at a PGA Recognized Facility Under Construction A-8 B-8 Assistant Golf Professional at a PGA Recognized Facility A-9 B-9 Employed in Professional Positions in Management, Development, Ownership Operation and/or Financing of Facilities A-10 B-10 Golf Clinician A-11 B-11 Golf Administrator A-12 B-12 College or University Golf Coach A-13 B-13 General Manager A-14 B-14 Director of Instruction at a PGA Recognized Facility A-15 B-15 Ownership or Management of a Retail Golf Facility A-16 B-16 Golf Course Architect A-17 B-17 Golf Course Superintendent A-18 B-18 Golf Media A-19 B-19 Golf Manufacturer Management A-20 B-20 Golf Manufacturer Sales Representative A-21 B-21 Tournament Coordinator/Director for Organizations, Businesses or Associations A-22 B-22 Rules Official A-23 B-23 Club Fitting/Club Repair A-24 N/A Employed within the golf industry and not eligible for another Active classification HM N/A Honorary Member IN N/A Not eligible for classification as Active, Life Member or Retired Member LM/LMM N/A Not eligible for classification as Active Member and who have held a minimum of 20 years in an Active Classification (whether continuous or not) LMA/LMMA N/A Not eligible for classification as Active Member and who have held a minimum of 20 years in an Active Classification (whether continuous or not) MP N/A Master Professional RM N/A Members who are fully retired (cannot be working in either a golf or non-golf position) and who have achieved a combined 65 years of age and Active membership and who are not eligible for Life Member F N/A Failure to meet the requirements of the Professional Development Program See also[edit] Lists of golfers - lists of professional (and amateur) golfers PGA Tour References[edit] ^ "The Rules of Amateur Status | Rule 3–2 Prize Limits". The R&A. Retrieved 19 February 2021. ^ "The Rules of Amateur Status | Rule 3–2 Prize Limits". USGA. Retrieved 19 February 2021. ^ "Definitions". Rules of Amateur Status. United States Golf Association. Retrieved August 11, 2017. Instruction does not cover teaching the psychological aspects of the game or the etiquette or Rules of Golf. ^ "Highest Paid Athlete Golf". highestpaidathlete.com. Archived from the original on 2011-01-31. ^ "PGA of America Member Classifications | PGA.com". Retrieved 22 July 2017. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Golfers. PGA of America v t e Golf Overview History Glossary Outline Rules etiquette stroke play match play four-ball foursomes scoring Stableford handicap penalties playoffs Golf course links teeing ground hazards Equipment golf clubs golf ball tee Technical Golf swing drive Instruction Facilities Country club Driving range Pro shop Governing organizations International Golf Federation The R&A United States Golf Association Professional Golfers' Association (Great Britain and Ireland) Professional Golfers' Association of America Professional golf tours LPGA PGA Tour PGA European Tour American Society of Golf Course Architects World Golf Teachers Federation Majors (Grand Slam, Triple Crown) Men Masters Tournament Augusta National GC PGA Championship U.S. Open The Open Championship venues Challenge Belt Claret Jug Women Chevron Championship U.S. Women's Open Women's PGA Championship The Evian Championship Women's British Open Senior The Tradition Senior PGA Championship U.S. Senior Open Senior Players Championship Senior Open Championship Senior Women's Senior LPGA Championship U.S. Senior Women's Open International events Team Curtis Cup Eisenhower Trophy Espirito Santo Trophy European Amateur Team Championship European Ladies' Team Championship International Crown Presidents Cup Ryder Cup Solheim Cup Walker Cup World Cup Men's Women's Multi-sport event Asian Games Inter-Allied Games Island Games Mediterranean Games Pacific Games Pan American Games Summer Olympics Summer Universiade Youth Olympic Games Rankings Men No 1s top 10 Women Amateur Golfers Male golfers Female golfers Major champions Men's major winners Women's major winners Senior major winners Olympic medalists Most wins Asian Tour Challenge Tour European Tour European Senior Tour Japan Golf Tour Ladies European Tour LPGA of Japan Tour LPGA Tour PGA Tour PGA Tour Champions Korn Ferry Tour Lists of golf courses by feature Links Granted Royal status by country Canada Iceland India Philippines Portugal Sweden United Kingdom by designer Robert Trent Jones Old Tom Morris Jack Nicklaus Donald Ross A. W. Tillinghast Countries Australia China India Ireland Philippines Russia Scotland Thailand United States Wales Years 1353–1850 1851–1945 1945–1999 2000–2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Miscellaneous Awards Architects Caddie Caddie Hall of Fame Evans Scholars Foundation Greenskeeper World Golf Hall of Fame The R&A World Golf Museum USGA Museum Jack Nicklaus Museum Lowest rounds Furyk's 58 Open tournaments Variations Beach golf Disc golf Footgolf GolfCross Hickory golf Indoor golf Long drive Miniature golf Park golf Pitch and putt Shotgun start Skins game Snow golf Speed golf Urban golf Media Golf Channel personalities GolfTV Golf Digest Golf Magazine Golf World Golfweek Links Travel + Leisure Golf Video games JTBC Golf&Sports Category Commons Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Professional_golfer&oldid=1072703822" Categories: Golf terminology Sports occupations and roles Golf people Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from May 2010 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is locally defined Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Deutsch Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Scots 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 19 February 2022, at 02:38 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement