The most watched TV episode of the decade was  . . . the series finale of 'Friends'41 captures 05 Dec 2009 - 04 Jun 2021 Nov DEC Oct 07 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20091207085632/http://www.nydailynews.com:80/entertainment/tv/2009/12/03/2009-12-03_the_most_watched_tv_episode_of_the_decade_was____the_series_finale_of_friends.html Autos Real Estate Jobs Classifieds Shop Contests Place an Ad DailyNewsPix More NYDN: NYDN Home Feeds Services Delivery Search Field Weather in NYC 33°F Forecast Traffic Monday, December 7, 2009 News Sports Gossip Entertainment NY Events Local Opinion Lifestyle Travel Money Tech Topics Photos Video Blogs EntertainmentTelevisionThe most watched TV episode of the decade was . . . the series finale of 'Friends' Article Comments Email Print RSS Share Digg Facebook Newsvine Furl Mixx Reddit Stumble Delicious Propeller The most watched TV episode of the decade was . . . the series finale of 'Friends' By Cristina Kinon DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER Thursday, December 3rd 2009, 5:21 PM Warner Bros./AP The series finale of 'Friends' was the most watched TV episode of the decade. Related News Articles Pat Kiernan shows off 'man cleavage' on NY 1's In the Papers Cookie Monster grabs Tyra Banks' rear during show taping Smooth sailing Grammy nominations make for a non-event on live TV Hinckley: In the end, 'Monk' is TV at its finest 'Jersey Shore' star Mike Sorrentio proud to be livin' la vida guido Don't panic, NBC viewers! Comcast purchase won't create static Kylie Bisutti wins Victoria's Secret Model Search, makes runway debut Simon Cowell taking his act to Vegas, with 'X Factor' The one in which Ross and Rachel finally made it official is the most-watched regular TV episode of the decade. The May 6, 2004 "Friends" finale was watched by 52.5 million people, according to the Hollywood Reporter, putting it ahead of other must-see-TV moments like the "Survivor: Borneo" finale in which villain Richard Hatch won the top prize (#2 on the list with 51.7 million viewers) and the "Grey's Anatomy" post-Superbowl episode featuring a bomb in the building (#6 on the list with 38 million viewers). The list excluded duplicate titles so, for example, only one "American Idol" episode ranked rather than its multiple record-breaking premieres or finales. Still, the breakdown gives a well-rounded view of the past ten years of television viewing habits. Not to be ignored is the fact that the newest entry on the list is "Idol's" 2007 six season premiere, a testament to today's fractured viewing habits, thanks to DVRs, Hulu and YouTube. Other entries on the list include the "Joe Millionaire" finale (#3 with 40 million); the episode of "ER" that revealed who, of Lucy Knight and John Carter, would survive an attack by a schizophrenic patient (#4 with 39.4 million); and the finales of "Frasier" (#8 with 33.7 million) and "Everybody Loves Raymond (#9 with 32.9 million). EW.com points out that for this season's episode of "The Office" in which Jim and Pam finally married, just 9.4 million people tuned in. Related Topics Ross Richard Hatch The Hollywood Reporter Survivor (TV Show) Grey's Anatomy American Idol John Carter Lucy Knight YouTube LLC Hulu LLC ER (TV Show) Technology Ads by Yahoo! Email to a friend Print RSS Digg This StumbleUpon Newsvine Post on Facebook Follow us on Twitter EDITORS' PICKS Billy Joel: Alexa Ray is 'going to be fine' after OD Joel and Christie Brinkley's daughter was released from the hospital. Plus three: Now, there are six alleged Tiger mistresses Cori Rist, Jamie Jungers and Mindy Lawson were added to Tiger Woods' sultry scorecard. 'How many white women does one brother want?' Tiger Woods parody song points to golfer's alienation of the black community. Palin's other book title: 'How to look like a $150,000 bucks,' she jokes Sarah Palin poked fun at herself in a speech to journalists. Stars who strip for a cause PHOTOS: Hollywood starlets shed their clothes and get controversial for good causes. Tsk tsk, Zhu Zhu! Hottest holiday gift may be poisonous A consumer group contends one of the holiday season's must-have toys is unsafe. MORE FROM NYDN Obama makes rare Sunday visit to Senate to push Health Care reform Senate Democrats are working through the weekend. Miley Cyrus shows off new 'Just Breathe' tattoo The actress is shedding her squeaky clean "Hannah Montana" image for good. Semi-nude pics of Tiger's alleged mistress surface Cocktail waitress Jaimee Grubbs wears little more than a smile, says website. Elin Nordegren, Tiger's embattled wife PHOTOS: A closer look at the Swedish model who married Tiger Woods in 2004. PHOTOS of Tiger Woods six alleged mistresses Meet Jamie Jungers, Mindy Lawson, Kalika Moquin, Jaimee Grubbs and Rachel Uchitel. More from Television 'I'm a Celebrity' stars cook rat, get charged with animal cruelty CBS airs public service ads urging men to get wives pap smears as 'special' holiday gift Tom Brokaw, wife involved in tragic Bronx car accident that left one woman dead Show goes on for 'The Jack5ons: A Family Dynasty' with life after late King of Pop, Michael Jackson Reality Bites: Victoria's Secret models do the Hair Fluff MOST POPULAR Most Read Most Discussed Most Emailed Read your favorite comic on the Daily News. TV Listings Enter your ZIP code below to see local listings. TV Listings powered by Zap2it Media Kit Services Home Delivery Newsletter Place an Ad About Our Ads Contact Us Sitemap Latest Feeds My Yahoo Use of this website signifies your agreement to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. © Copyright 2009 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.