The One Where No One Proposes - WikipediaThe One Where No One Proposes From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 1st episode of the ninth season of Friends "The One Where No One Proposes" Friends episode Episode no. Season 9 Episode 1 Directed by Kevin S. Bright Written by Sherry Bilsing-Graham & Ellen Plummer Production code 175251 Original air date September 26, 2002[1] Guest appearances Elliott Gould as Jack Geller Cleo King as Nurse Kitty Episode chronology ← Previous "The One Where Rachel Has a Baby" Next → "The One Where Emma Cries" Friends (season 9) List of episodes "The One Where No One Proposes" is the first episode of Friends' ninth season. It first aired on the NBC network in the United States on September 26, 2002.[1] Plot[edit] At the end of season eight, hours after giving birth to her and Ross's daughter Emma, Rachel accidentally thinks Joey proposed to her, and says yes. Throughout the episode, Joey tries to tell her the truth before Ross finds out but keeps getting interrupted. Meanwhile, Monica asks Rachel if she really wants to marry Joey. She admits that she does not want to marry him; she only said yes out of fear of raising Emma alone. When Phoebe sees Rachel with the ring which actually belonged to Ross's grandmother, she thinks Ross proposed. She confronts Ross who denies proposing to Rachel, but later thinks he might have. He decides to meet Rachel to put an end to the confusion. Joey comes in and Ross and Joey then end up arguing and Rachel realises that no one actually proposed. Joey leaves and Ross tries to see if he can start things up again with Rachel. Then he sees that Rachel is wearing the ring and asks her if she said yes when she thought Joey proposed. Rachel does not know what to answer and the episode ends in a cliffhanger. Monica and Chandler continue their attempts to get a baby of their own, and use a utility closet in the hospital, where they are caught by Jack, Monica's father. When he proceeds to show them sex moves that guarantee conception, the couple are visibly freaked out. Reception[edit] In the original broadcast, the episode was viewed by 25.5 million viewers.[2] Sam Ashurst from Digital Spy ranked it #219 on their ranking of the 236 Friends episodes.[3] Telegraph & Argus ranked it #210 on their ranking of all 236 Friends episodes.[4] References[edit] ^ a b "Friends - TV Guide". TVGuide.com. ^ "Friends Nielsen Ratings Archive - Season Nine". newmusicandmore.tripod.com. ^ Ashurst, Sam (1 January 2018). "Every single Friends episode – RANKED". Digital Spy. ^ "The definitive ranking of all 236 Friends episodes". Bradford Telegraph and Argus. v t e Friends episodes Season 1 "The Pilot" "The One with the Sonogram at the End" "The One with the Thumb" "The One with George Stephanopoulos" "The One with the Blackout" "The One with the Monkey" "The One Where the Monkey Gets Away" "The One with the Fake Monica" "The One Where Rachel Finds Out" Season 2 "The One with Ross's New Girlfriend" "The One with Russ" "The One with the Lesbian Wedding" "The One After the Superbowl" "The One with the Prom Video" "The One Where Dr. Ramoray Dies" "The One with Barry and Mindy's Wedding" Season 3 "The One with the Princess Leia Fantasy" "The One Where No One's Ready" "The One with the Flashback" "The One with the Football" "The One with the Morning After" "The One at the Beach" Season 4 "The One with the Jellyfish" "The One with the Cat" "The One with the Embryos" "The One with Ross's Wedding" Season 5 "The One After Ross Says Rachel" "The One Hundredth" "The One with All the Thanksgivings" "The One Where Everybody Finds Out" "The One with the Girl Who Hits Joey" "The One with the Cop" "The One Where Rachel Smokes" "The One Where Ross Can't Flirt" "The One with the Ride-Along" "The One with Joey's Big Break" "The One in Vegas" Season 6 "The One After Vegas" "The One Where Ross Got High" "The One with the Apothecary Table" "The One with Unagi" "The One with the Proposal" Season 7 "The One with Monica's Thunder" "The One with All the Candy" "The One with All the Cheesecakes" "The One Where They're Up All Night" "The One with Ross and Monica's Cousin" "The One with Monica and Chandler's Wedding" Season 8 "The One After 'I Do'" "The One with Rachel's Date" "The One with the Halloween Party" "The One with the Rumor" "The One Where Rachel Has a Baby" Season 9 "The One Where No One Proposes" "The One with Ross's Inappropriate Song" "The One with Rachel's Dream" "The One in Barbados" Season 10 "The One After Joey and Rachel Kiss" "The One Where Ross Is Fine" "The One with Ross's Tan" "The One with Phoebe's Wedding" "The Last One" Specials Friends: The Reunion Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_One_Where_No_One_Proposes&oldid=1049317047" Categories: 2002 American television episodes Friends (season 9) episodes Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes Pages using infobox television episode with nonstandard dates Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Bosanski Edit links This page was last edited on 11 October 2021, at 03:51 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement