Manager (association football) - WikipediaManager (association football) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Head coach of an association football team This article is about real life association football managers. For the video game series, see Football Manager. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Manager" association football – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Alex Ferguson is the winner of the most English Manager of the Year awards, all won during his tenure as manager of Manchester United. He is now the UEFA coaching ambassador.[1][2] In association football, the manager is the person who runs a football club or a national team. They have wide-ranging responsibilities, including selecting the team, choosing the tactics, recruiting and transferring players, negotiating player contracts, and speaking to the media. The role exists almost exclusively in the British Isles; in other regions its responsibilities are split between a head coach and a director of football.[citation needed] In the 21st century some British clubs adopted a similar split, but often continue to use the title of 'manager' for their head coach. Contents 1 Responsibilities 2 European and North American managers 3 See also 4 References Responsibilities[edit] The manager's responsibilities in a professional football club usually include (but are not limited to) the following:[citation needed] Selecting the team of players for matches, and their formation. Planning the strategy, and instructing the players on the pitch. Motivating players before and during a match. Delegating duties to the first team coach and the coaching and medical staff. Scouting for young but talented players for eventual training in the youth academy or the reserves, and encouraging their development and improvement. Buying and selling players in the transfer market, including loans. Facing the media in pre-match and post-match interviews. Some of the above responsibilities may be shared with a director of football or sporting director, and are at times delegated to an assistant manager or club coach. Additionally, depending on the club, some minor[citation needed] responsibilities include: Marketing the club, most especially for ticket admission, sponsorship and merchandising. Growing turnover and keeping the club profitable. These responsibilities are more common among managers of small clubs. European and North American managers[edit] The title of manager is almost exclusively used in British football.[3] In most other European countries in which professional football is played, the person responsible for the direction of a team is awarded the position of coach or "trainer". For instance, despite the general equivalence in responsibilities, Bobby Robson was referred to as the manager of England, and Joachim Löw was described as the head coach of Germany. Germany also has a team manager role that is subordinate to the head coach and is currently[when?] held by Oliver Bierhoff. The responsibilities of a European football manager or head coach tend to be divided up in North American professional sports, where the teams usually have a separate general manager and head coach (known as a field manager in baseball), although occasionally a person may fill both these roles. While the first team coach in football is usually an assistant to the manager who actually holds the real power, the North American-style general manager and head coach have clearly distinct areas of responsibilities. For example, a typical European football manager has the final say on in-game decisions (including player line-ups), and off-the-field and roster management decisions (including contract negotiations). In North American sports, those duties would be handled separately by the head coach and general manager, respectively. See also[edit] Association football portal List of football managers with most games List of longest managerial reigns in association football Caretaker manager Player-manager League Managers Association for managers in England Football Manager, a simulation video game for playing as a manager. References[edit] ^ Saffer, Paul (21 May 2016). "The unsackables: Europe's longest-serving coaches". UEFA.com. Union of European Football Associations. Retrieved 7 November 2020. ^ "Europe's top coaches convene in Nyon". UEFA.com. Union of European Football Associations. 2 September 2015. Retrieved 7 November 2020. ^ "Manager or Coach?". Football Italia. 5 September 2008. Retrieved 30 January 2011. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Association football coaches. Authority control: National libraries Germany United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Manager_(association_football)&oldid=1068074725" Categories: Association football managers Association football terminology Sports coaches Association football occupations Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from March 2019 EngvarB from December 2020 Articles needing additional references from July 2013 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2020 Articles with unsourced statements from July 2010 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from December 2020 Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with GND identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية বাংলা Dansk Deutsch Eesti فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Nederlands 日本語 Scots Simple English Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 26 January 2022, at 14:26 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement