Chandler Bing - WikipediaChandler Bing From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Fictional character on the television series "Friends" This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Chandler Bing" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Chandler Bing Friends character First appearance "The Pilot" (1994) Last appearance "The Last One" (2004) Created by David Crane Marta Kauffman Portrayed by Matthew Perry Joshua Duvall Preston (young) In-universe information Full name Chandler Muriel Bing[1] Gender Male Occupation Statistical analysis and Data Reconfiguration (seasons 1–9) Junior Advertising Copywriter (seasons 9–10) Family Charles Bing (father) Nora Tyler Bing (mother) Spouse Monica Geller (m. 2001) Children Jack and Erica Bing Relatives Jack Geller (father-in-law) Judy Geller (mother-in-law) Ross Geller (brother-in-law) Rachel Green (sister-in-law) Ben Geller (nephew) Emma Geller-Green (niece) Edna (aunt) Religion Agnostic Nationality American Chandler Muriel Bing is a fictional character from the NBC sitcom Friends, portrayed by actor Matthew Perry.[2] Chandler was born to Nora Tyler Bing, an erotic romance novelist, and Charles Bing, a gay female impersonator and star of a Las Vegas drag show called "Viva Las Gay-gas" as Helena Handbasket. Chandler is of Scottish and Swedish descent.[citation needed] He is an only child and is apparently from an affluent family.[citation needed] His parents announced their divorce to him over Thanksgiving dinner when Chandler was nine years old, an event which causes him to refuse to celebrate the holiday in his adulthood and develop his notorious sense of humour as a defense mechanism. It is revealed in season 1 that he went to an all-boys high school. Chandler's best friend is Joey Tribbiani, who is his roommate. He previously lived with his good friend Ross Geller. He met Ross' sister, Monica Geller, and her friend, Rachel Green, while celebrating Thanksgiving at Ross' parents' house. Chandler was the first person to know about Ross' love for Rachel.[citation needed] He moved to New York City and lives across the hall from Monica and, through her, meets Phoebe Buffay. Chandler has a very good sense of humor, and is notoriously sarcastic. He attributes his sarcasm as a defense mechanism he developed due to his parents' divorcing when he was a child. He is the highest earning member of his friends' circle on account of responsible income management, having learned the value of money from a young age.[citation needed] He suffers from commitment issues, but later marries Monica at the end of season 7. In season 10, Chandler and Monica go on to adopt twins, Jack and Erica. His birthday is celebrated on the 8th of April, even though there are misconceptions that it is on the 24th of April. Contents 1 Appearances 2 Development 2.1 Relationships 3 Career 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Appearances[edit] Chandler works in 'Statistical analysis and Data reconfiguration,' but loathes it, although it pays well.[citation needed] Chandler was Ross Geller's roommate in college. Chandler met his future wife Monica Geller while celebrating Thanksgiving with the Geller family during his first year at college. On a tip from Monica, Chandler later moved to Apartment #19 in Greenwich Village, Manhattan, across the hall from Monica and her roommate Phoebe Buffay. After his roommate Kip moves out, actor Joey Tribbiani moves in with Chandler, who becomes his best friend. Ross and Chandler have been best friends since their freshman year in college, where they were roommates. They were in a band together. Chandler also learned "Hug and Roll" from Ross when he was dating Janice.[3] Until moving in with Monica, Chandler shared an apartment with Joey. Chandler and Joey's apartment is an important focal point for the series as one of the few meeting areas of the gang. The two form a close and enduring friendship, and get into many humorous situations. In the pilot episode of the sequel series Joey, Joey's sister Gina briefly expresses her belief that Joey and Chandler were a gay couple. When Chandler first meets Joey and interviews him as a roommate, the two start off on the wrong foot when Joey says that he "is cool with the gay thing" (Joey assuming that Chandler is gay). Chandler initially chooses Eric, a fashion photographer with a porn-star sister as his roommate, but after their eccentric neighbor Mr. Heckles (Larry Hankin) tells Eric that he is Chandler's new roommate and is able to open Chandler's unlocked door, Eric leaves. Chandler assumes that Eric simply did not turn up, and he gives the keys to Joey, but soon finds that they have a lot in common, including a fondness for Baywatch and beer. Chandler often supports Joey throughout the show, by always supporting Joey at every step of his roller-coaster of a career in show business besides paying the rent, paying for Joey's head-shots, buying most of the food, and even giving money to Joey for his numerous dates. Even when buying a new house for his own family, Chandler reveals that he is going to have a 'Joey room' in it for him. The relationship between the two is balanced: Joey looks to Chandler as his intellectual superior, while Chandler acknowledges Joey as the more confident counterpart, especially when it comes to romance and Chandler often takes advice from Joey on how to date women. Chandler and Rachel originally did not like each other, but grew to become good friends. Rachel does not understand Chandler's sarcasm early in the series, and even later on has a hard time appreciating his sense of humour, as she acknowledges in the final episode. In "The One with All the Cheesecakes" Chandler and Rachel steal and share the cheesecake which originally belonged to their downstairs neighbor. Rachel, who works for Ralph Lauren, is also the one who helps Chandler pick out his wedding suit. Rachel also sets up Chandler with her boss Joanna (Alison LaPlaca). Rachel and Chandler never have any romantic relationships apart from a glance back to their time in college when they made out. In "The One with the Flashback," Rachel is shown briefly fantasizing about Chandler at the end of the episode. Chandler and Phoebe are good friends. Although Phoebe mocks Chandler frequently, they sometimes are goofy and have fun with one another. In "The One with the Metaphorical Tunnel", Phoebe and Chandler play hide and seek. They also play games, like coming up with superhero names and reclining the Barcaloungers like cowboys. They share a duet of "Endless Love" at the end of one episode, when Chandler is sad after a breakup with his on-off girlfriend Janice (Maggie Wheeler). In "The One Where Everyone Finds Out", she tries to trick him into believing that she is attracted to him, but Monica tells him that Phoebe finds him charming in a "sexless" way, indicating that any hints of romance are jokes. Phoebe is the initial reason that Chandler quit smoking in "The One with the Thumb", after an argument between the group about his smoking. He is leaving the apartment when she offers him $7,000 to never smoke again. Chandler is brash, zany, and estranged from both of his parents. He suffers from commitment issues, brought on by growing up in a broken home with no idea of what a stable marriage looks like, can be neurotic and extremely defensive, with humour as his shield. Chandler also associates everything that links to his parents' divorce in a negative light, specifically Thanksgiving where his parents reveal their separation over a turkey where his father plans to run away with the bus boy. Both of Chandler's parents are extremely sexually promiscuous, and he has made several allusions to having caught them during sexual acts. Most of these involve his father with other men. Among other things, he alludes to having witnessed orgies by the time he was seven years old, and playing "the far left" background dancer during his father's rendition of It's Raining Men when he was growing up. His mother Nora is a world famous writer of erotic novels, which is demonstrated when Rachel's short-term boyfriend Paolo – who is Italian and barely speaks any English – is shown to know her. Chandler began smoking when he was nine years old after his parents announced their divorce. Chandler is first seen smoking during the first season and is chastised by his friends for breaking his non-smoking streak of three years. He does a fairly good job at controlling his habit throughout the series' run, although a few times he cannot resist temptation and has a single cigarette or just a single drag off someone else's. His only major relapse occurs in season 9 when he stays in Oklahoma four days a week for work and smoked "three cartons in three days" because all his colleagues lit up during work meetings. He promises Monica never to smoke again, and is not seen smoking in the series after this point. But, there is evidence of him still smoking in Season 10 when Monica caught the smell of cigarettes on him after he came home from seeing the house Monica and Chandler buys in Westchester. Chandler does not deny the allegation. Chandler's main catchphrase is starting sentences with "Could that BE any more..." Development[edit] Relationships[edit] Chandler is afraid of commitment and had the fewest relationships out of all the Friends.[citation needed] Despite all this, he and Monica are the first to have a committed marriage that doesn't end in divorce. At Ross' wedding in London, Monica and Chandler sleep together and decide to begin dating. They try to keep their relationship secret, as they are unsure about how the others would react. Eventually, however, they all find out and give their blessing. Things briefly become strained when Monica reveals that she had initially been looking for Joey for a one-night-stand, but they reconcile. Their wedding takes place during the finale of season 7. In the final episode of the series, Monica and Chandler adopt twins, due to their inability to conceive. Before his relationship with Monica, Chandler has an on-and-off relationship with Janice Hosenstein (Maggie Wheeler). She is a regular feature in his life, even though he regrets dating her and keeps ending their relationship in season 1. He calls her in season 2 out of fear of being alone, only to find out she is married and pregnant. In the season 2 finale, they meet after unknowingly chatting with each other online when her husband cheats on her, and they quickly get back together. The relationship lasts through the first few episodes of season 3, with Chandler genuinely infatuated by her, but when she kisses her husband whilst in the midst of her divorce, Chandler urges her to go back to her husband, not wanting to destroy her family. However, Janice makes further appearances later in the series, even after they have both married other people. Kathy (Paget Brewster) makes an appearance in the fourth season of Friends. Chandler sees her in Central Perk and asks the gang if he should ask her out, only to learn that she was already waiting for a date with Joey. Chandler and Kathy then fall for each other even though she is dating Joey. This causes huge friction between Joey and Chandler, but this is resolved and Chandler and Kathy get together and begin dating. She is an actress, and Chandler gets extremely paranoid when she shares a sex scene with her co-star prompting a big fight between the two. Chandler's paranoia drives Kathy into having an affair with the co-star, and Chandler and Kathy split up. Career[edit] Chandler works in statistical analysis and data reconfiguration.[citation needed] Despite disliking his job, Chandler stays because they keep giving him promotions and raises, eventually becoming boss to his old workmates. His friends do not understand what he does; during the contest for Monica and Rachel's apartment, Rachel guesses "Transponster" for his job title. This results in Chandler and Joey winning the apartment. In the episode "The One Where Emma Cries", Chandler falls asleep during a meeting and on waking, realizes that he had agreed to head the new division in Tulsa. Chandler quits his job on Christmas, so that he can fly home to New York to be with Monica. Monica helps Chandler secure a job in advertising through an old colleague of hers. Much to Chandler's dismay, he begins as an unpaid intern. However, his more mature approach eventually pays off, and he secures a full-time job in the business as a junior copywriter, which he enjoys much more than his previous career. See also[edit] List of Friends and Joey characters References[edit] ^ "Friends: Here's What Monica Geller's Middle Name Could Be". Screen Rant. 6 May 2020. Retrieved 27 June 2020. ^ Galindo, Brian (August 12, 2013). "25 Fascinating Facts You Might Not Know About 'Friends'". Buzzfeed.com. Archived from the original on March 15, 2015. Retrieved October 21, 2013. ^ "The One Where the Stripper Cries". Friends. Season 10. February 5, 2004. NBC. External links[edit] v t e Friends Seasons 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Characters Chandler Bing Phoebe Buffay Monica Geller Ross Geller Rachel Green Joey Tribbiani Music "I'll Be There for You" "Smelly Cat" People David Crane Marta Kauffman Kevin S. Bright The Rembrandts Related shows Mad About You Hello Friends Joey Other Awards and nominations 'Til the End The One with All the Trivia HBO reunion special Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chandler_Bing&oldid=1075884929" Categories: Fictional advertising executives Friends (1994 TV series) characters Fictional characters from New York City Television characters introduced in 1994 American male characters in television Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from November 2020 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2020 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español فارسی Français Gaeilge 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Italiano עברית ಕನ್ನಡ Latviešu Magyar Nederlands ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Polski Português Română Русский Shqip Simple English Slovenčina کوردی Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 8 March 2022, at 05:52 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement