Filming Locations from the Television Series ‘Friends’ – DIRTSkip to main content Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input Dirt facebook Plus Icon twitter Plus Icon instagram Plus Icon Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu optional screen reader Entertainers Moguls Athletes Showbiz Locations More Dirt Newsletter Looking for some Dirt? Get the latest scoop directly in your inbox. Email Address Subscribe Sign Up Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Read Next : Jennifer Lopez Finds Love at New York's… Dirt Plus Icon Click to Expand Search Input optional screen reader Home Locations Filming Locations Revisit These Iconic Locations Made Famous by Jennifer Aniston and ‘Friends’ on the Hit Show By Lindsay Blake Plus Icon Lindsay Blake Writer optional screen reader More Stories by Lindsay Courteney Cox Moves into a Historic South Pasadena Tudor on the New Starz Series ‘Shining Vale’ Lana Condor’s Charming ‘To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before’ Home Quietly Changes Hands for $2.75 Million CAD Julia Garner Sets Her Sights on New York’s Historic 281 Park Ave. S. in ‘Inventing Anna’ View All May 25, 2021 6:02 pm PT facebook twitter email pinit plus reddit linkedin whatsapp tumblr print comment Lindsay Blake; Evan Agostini/Invision/AP For those for whom it hasn’t been your day, your week, your month, or even your year, there’s good news! The long-awaited and highly-anticipated “Friends” reunion special is hitting HBO Max (where all 236 episodes of the hit series are currently available for streaming) on Thursday, May 27! (Barcalounger chairs to enhance viewing pleasure are purely optional.) Hosted by James Corden, the episode marks the first time all six cast members will be sharing a screen in the 17 years since the show wrapped! As People magazine states in its recent cover story detailing the production, “Could we be any more excited?!” A slew of the sitcom’s best-loved guest stars will be popping by to join in the fun, as well, including Reese Witherspoon, Tom Selleck and Maggie Wheeler (cue the “Oh my Gods!”). Justin Bieber, who was a wee six months old when the pilot aired, is also (inexplicably) making an appearance. Fans can further expect a revisit of the many locations made famous by the series, like the fountain where the opening credits were shot and the original soundstage where the cast and crew reported to work each day. Though set in New York, “Friends” was lensed in Los Angeles, with many Big Apple establishing shots thrown in to help fake the East Coast backdrop. Recorded in front of a live studio audience, the vast majority of filming took place on a soundstage at Warner Bros. Studio, the lot that served as the show’s home throughout the course of its ten-year run. Several of the facility’s exterior sets and streetscapes were also utilized for outside shots. In honor of “Friends: The Reunion’s” landmark debut, Dirt has gathered together a round-up of some of the most iconic sites featured on the Must-See TV behemoth. optional screen reader Tags Friends Los Angeles New York Looking for some Dirt? Get the latest scoop directly in your inbox. Email Address Subscribe Sign Up JavaScript is required to load the comments. Loading comments... More From Dirt Entertainers TikTok Superstar Jason Derulo Buys Slick Modern Farmhouse Mar 9, 2022 9:39 am PT Filming Locations Courteney Cox Moves into a Historic South Pasadena Tudor on the New Starz Series 'Shining Vale' Mar 8, 2022 6:02 pm PT Athletes New USC Football Coach Lincoln Riley Drops $17.2 Million on Glam Palos Verdes Estate Mar 8, 2022 4:48 pm PT Related Stories Filming Locations Courteney Cox Moves into a Historic South Pasadena Tudor on the New Starz Series ‘Shining Vale’ Filming Locations Lana Condor’s Charming ‘To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before’ Home Quietly Changes Hands for $2.75 Million CAD Filming Locations Julia Garner Sets Her Sights on New York’s Historic 281 Park Ave. S. in ‘Inventing Anna’ More From Our Brands Powered By PMC Logo Lincoln Center’s $550 Million David Geffen Hall To Open In October, Ahead Of Schedule 8 hours ago Angelyne Lands Release Date at Peacock — See Emmy Rossum as the L.A. Billboard Icon in New Teaser 7 hours ago Will ‘Abbott Elementary’ be the rare network sitcom to crack Best Comedy Series at the Emmys? 7 hours ago ‘Every Night I See the War.’ Ukrainians Flee Putin’s Invasion, Sometimes With No Escape 7 hours ago Here’s How to Properly Store Your Cannabis Stash 7 hours ago optional screen reader Dirt About Us Accessibility Advertise optional screen reader Legal Terms of Conditions Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights AdChoices Privacy Preferences Do Not Sell My Personal Information optional screen reader Sitemap Entertainers Moguls Athletes Showbiz Connect with Us Get our latest stories in the feed of your favorite networks facebook Plus Icon twitter Plus Icon instagram Plus Icon Have a Tip? We want to hear from you! Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Stay In The Know Sign up for our daily newsletter Enter your email Sign Up Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon Dirt is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2022 Dirt.com, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP optional screen reader Our Sites Artnews BGR Billboard Deadline Fairchild Media Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows She Media Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Dirt Close the menu Entertainers Expand the sub menu Actors Musicians Influencers Reality TV Stars Performers Moguls Expand the sub menu Finance Fashion Power Players Real Estate Tech Athletes Expand the sub menu Football Players Basketball Players Soccer Players Sports Stars Showbiz Expand the sub menu Directors Producers Screenwriters Studio Execs Entertainment Industry Locations Expand the sub menu Filming Locations Historical Locations More Dirt Expand the sub menu Heirs & Heiresses Artists Lawyers Politicians Design Follow Us facebook twitter instagram Alerts & Newsletters Enter your email Sign Up Sign Up optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Classifieds Icon Link Plus Icon Dirt is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2022 Dirt.com, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad