Los Angeles Daily News - WikipediaLos Angeles Daily News From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Daily newspaper in Los Angeles This article is about the present-day newspaper. For other newspapers, see Los Angeles Daily News (19th century) and Illustrated Daily News. Los Angeles Daily News Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) MediaNews Group Publisher Ron Hasse Editor Frank Pine Founded 1911; 111 years ago (1911) (as the Van Nuys Call) Language English Headquarters 21622 Plummer Street, Suite #200 Chatsworth, California 91311 United States Circulation 56,493 Daily 79,646 Sunday (September 2014)[1] Website www.dailynews.com The merged The Van Nuys News (in big letters) and The Van Nuys Call (in small letters) (January 22, 1915) The Los Angeles Daily News is the second-largest-circulating paid daily newspaper of Los Angeles, California. It is the flagship of the Southern California News Group, a branch of Colorado-based Digital First Media. The offices of the Daily News are in Chatsworth, and much of the paper's reporting is targeted toward readers in the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles. Its stories tend to focus on issues involving local San Fernando Valley businesses, education, and crime. The editor currently is Frank Pine.[2] Contents 1 History 1.1 Earlier titles 1.2 Los Angeles Daily News 2 Similarly titled earlier newspapers 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] Earlier titles[edit] The Daily News began publication in Van Nuys as the Van Nuys Call in 1911,[3] morphing into the Van Nuys News after a merger with a competing newspaper called the News. In 1953, the newspaper was renamed the Van Nuys News and Valley Green Sheet.[3] The front page was produced on green newsprint. During this period, the newspaper was delivered four times a week for free to readers in 14 zoned editions in the San Fernando Valley.[4] In 1971, the newspaper was sold to the Tribune Company by the original family owners. In 1976, to de-emphasize the Van Nuys location, the paper changed its name to the Valley News and Green Sheet, and gradually converted from the four times a week operation to a daily newspaper with paid circulation. During this period, circulation increased to 210,000. Los Angeles Daily News[edit] In 1981, the paper changed its name to the Daily News of Los Angeles and became a daily publication.[3] In 1985, Tribune bought KTLA, and due to ownership laws of the time, Tribune sold the paper to Jack Kent Cooke, who spent millions of dollars building state of the art offices and expanding coverage to include the entire San Fernando Valley. When the Los Angeles Herald Examiner went out of business November 2, 1989, it left the Daily News the second-biggest paper in the city behind the Los Angeles Times. Upon Cooke's death in 1997, William Dean Singleton's MediaNews purchased the newspaper and consolidated it with his other Southern California MediaNews holdings into the Los Angeles Newspaper Group.[5] The group briefly published local editions for the Antelope Valley, Santa Clarita and Ventura County. However, to cut costs and consolidate resources, the local editions were eliminated. As part of circulation reporting for the Southern California News Group, all papers in LANG are considered editions of the Daily News.[6] The Daily News endorsed Barack Obama for president in 2008,[7] but then endorsed his opponent Mitt Romney in 2012.[8] Similarly titled earlier newspapers[edit] The Daily News bears no relation to an earlier historic Los Angeles Daily News (1923–1954), a morning newspaper based in Downtown Los Angeles (originally the Illustrated Daily News) that ceased publication on December 18, 1954. An even earlier newspaper called the Los Angeles Daily News was printed beginning in 1869 and continuing for a number of years after.[9][10] See also[edit] Los Angeles portal References[edit] ^ "Total Circ for US Newspapers". Alliance for Audited Media. September 2014. Archived from the original on March 6, 2013. Retrieved June 11, 2015. ^ "Daily News - Contacts". Los Angeles Daily News. Southern California News Group. Archived from the original on 2008-06-02. Retrieved 2008-06-10. ^ a b c Pitt, Dale (2000). Los Angeles A to Z. Berkeley, California: University of California Press. p. 109. ISBN 978-0-520-20530-7. OCLC 248510988. ^ Kaye, Ron. "Who Better to Kill a Newspaper Than a Journalistic Mortician: The Ed Moss Story". Ron Kaye (blog). Archived from the original on 19 January 2016. Retrieved 23 June 2015. ^ Roberts, Gene; Kunkel, Thomas; Layton, Charles, eds. (2001). Leaving Readers Behind: The Age of Corporate Newspapering. Fayetteville: University of Arkansas Press. ISBN 1610752325. ^ Roderick, Kevin (April 1, 2013). "Al Martinez pens final column for changing Daily News". LA Observed. Retrieved 23 June 2015. ^ "Barack Obama for president". Los Angeles Daily News. Archived from the original on 28 June 2011. Retrieved 23 June 2015. ^ "Los Angeles News Group Endorsement: Mitt Romney for president". Los Angeles Daily News. Archived from the original on 20 April 2013. Retrieved 23 June 2015. ^ "Los Angeles daily news". Los Angeles Public Library L2PAC Catalog. ^ "Old Relics Unearthed", Los Angeles Herald, February 29, 1896, image 6 External links[edit] Official website Daily News Mobile app — headlines only. Los Angeles Public Library Photo Collection: Valley Times Newspaper Collection (1946−1965) — 82,000 images, 28,000 digitalized/online. v t e Digital First Media v t e MediaNews Group Bay Area News Group1 East Bay Times Marin Independent Journal The Mercury News Southern California News Group1 The Beach Reporter Daily Breeze Inland Valley Daily Bulletin Los Angeles Daily News Orange County Register Pasadena Star-News The Press-Enterprise Press-Telegram Redlands Daily Facts The San Bernardino Sun San Gabriel Valley Tribune Whittier Daily News MediaOne New England Boston Herald Nashoba Publishing Sentinel & Enterprise The Sun Northern California1 Chico Enterprise-Record Daily Democrat Daily News Lake County Record-Bee The Mendocino Beacon The Monterey County Herald Oroville Mercury-Register Paradise Post The Reporter Santa Cruz Sentinel Times-Standard Ukiah Daily Journal Vallejo Times Herald Prairie Mountain Publishing Akron News-Reporter Broomfield Enterprise Brush News-Tribune Burlington Record Cañon City Daily Record Colorado Daily Daily Camera Estes Park Trail-Gazette Fort Morgan Times Journal-Advocate Julesburg Advocate Lamar Ledger Longmont Times-Call Reporter-Herald Other newspapers The Denver Post The Detroit News St. Paul Pioneer Press 1Operated by California Newspapers Partnership, a joint venture with Stephens Media; all or most newspapers in this group are owned by the partnership v t e 21st Century Media Daily newspapers Daily Freeman Daily Local News Delaware County Daily Times The Macomb Daily The Mercury The Morning Journal The News-Herald The Oakland Press The Oneida Dispatch The Record The Saratogian The Trentonian Weekly newspapers Ypsilanti Courier All properties List of newspapers published by 21st Century Media v t e MediaNews Group Bay Area News Group1 East Bay Times Marin Independent Journal The Mercury News Southern California News Group1 The Beach Reporter Daily Breeze Inland Valley Daily Bulletin Los Angeles Daily News Orange County Register Pasadena Star-News The Press-Enterprise Press-Telegram Redlands Daily Facts The San Bernardino Sun San Gabriel Valley Tribune Whittier Daily News MediaOne New England Boston Herald Nashoba Publishing Sentinel & Enterprise The Sun Northern California1 Chico Enterprise-Record Daily Democrat Daily News Lake County Record-Bee The Mendocino Beacon The Monterey County Herald Oroville Mercury-Register Paradise Post The Reporter Santa Cruz Sentinel Times-Standard Ukiah Daily Journal Vallejo Times Herald Prairie Mountain Publishing Akron News-Reporter Broomfield Enterprise Brush News-Tribune Burlington Record Cañon City Daily Record Colorado Daily Daily Camera Estes Park Trail-Gazette Fort Morgan Times Journal-Advocate Julesburg Advocate Lamar Ledger Longmont Times-Call Reporter-Herald Other newspapers The Denver Post The Detroit News St. Paul Pioneer Press 1Operated by California Newspapers Partnership, a joint venture with Stephens Media; all or most newspapers in this group are owned by the partnership Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Los_Angeles_Daily_News&oldid=1058304683" Categories: Daily newspapers published in Greater Los Angeles San Fernando Valley Digital First Media Companies based in Los Angeles Woodland Hills, Los Angeles Newspapers established in 1911 1911 establishments in California MediaNews Group publications Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata AC with 0 elements Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Esperanto Français Galego हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 2 December 2021, at 18:38 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement