Friends Or Foes? | EW.com45 captures 03 Sep 2015 - 21 Feb 2022 Aug SEP Oct 03 2014 2015 2017 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Live Web Proxy Crawls Content crawled via the Wayback Machine Live Proxy mostly by the Save Page Now feature on web.archive.org. Liveweb proxy is a component of Internet Archive’s wayback machine project. The liveweb proxy captures the content of a web page in real time, archives it into a ARC or WARC file and returns the ARC/WARC record back to the wayback machine to process. The recorded ARC/WARC file becomes part of the wayback machine in due course of time. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150903224557/http://www.ew.com/article/2001/02/09/friends-or-foes Skip to main content Menu Main menu TV TV Recaps Movies Music Books Gaming Video Home Hot on EW.com #50Scoops50Days Emmys Fall Movie Preview Fall TV Shondaland Login Register Friends Or Foes? by Lynette Rice | February 9 2001 — 12:00 AM EST Long before prime-time TV was introduced to the mystical powers of tiki torches and immunity idols, a little show called Friends consistently outwitted, outlasted, and outplayed every competitor in its path. (Nothing Sacred, C-16, Vengeance Unlimited, and Charlie Grace are just a few of the shows the sitcom kicked off rival networks’ schedules.) But now that CBS is taking on Schwimmer and Co. with Survivor: The Australian Outback, will the powerful sextet finally meet its Nielsen match? NBC, for one, doesn’t think you’ll be there for Friends. ”We fully expect Survivor to win the hour,” admits recently installed NBC Entertainment prez Jeff Zucker. ”Survivor is a phenomenon. There really hasn’t been any buzz about anything like it in a long time.” Conversely, it’s been a while since the seven-year-old Friends has generated publicity that didn’t involve the cast’s salary demands. And following a strong season last year, some critics say Aniston’s umpteenth haircut and a plot that may push Phoebe and Joey onto the show’s ever-revolving romantic merry-go-round just aren’t novel enough twists to get people talking. ”Friends isn’t a watercooler show, and Survivor’s got that hype,” says Dana Friedman of media investment company MindShare. ”You can always catch Friends; you know they’re going to be repeating. If you miss one Survivor, then you’ve missed it.” Even Friends exec producer David Crane acknowledges his show’s buzz deficit. ”We’ve been the No. 1 comedy for the last [several] years, and yet there are a number of times when people look at us like comfortable furniture,” says Crane. ”You can’t live without it but you don’t really notice it.” Still, NBC isn’t going to just cave in like a bug-infested fig. Friends has a few February sweeps casting coups (Jason Alexander played Phoebe’s suicidal telemarketing target in one episode, and Susan Sarandon depicts a soap diva in another) in addition to those 10 extra minutes per episode. And if the usual Friends fare doesn’t dampen the thunder from Down Under, Zucker’s hoping a never-before-seen Friends outtake show — not to mention the ”supersized” versions of Will & Grace and Just Shoot Me on Feb. 22 — will. Remaining surprisingly low-key through all this is CBS, which launched its programming assault with one simple goal: to improve its ratings on an ad-dollar-rich night where, historically, it’s been lucky to attract even a handful of viewers under 60 years of age. But rest assured, the Eye is definitely milking this opportunity for all it’s worth: In the post- Survivor 2 time slot, it’s replacing Diagnosis: Murder with the season’s highest-rated new drama, CSI — a risky move that could either cement the show’s burgeoning success or stifle the roll CSI’s been on in its less competitive Friday-night perch. As for the marquee match-up, ”I don’t think we harbor any thoughts about beating Friends,” says CBS scheduling head Kelly Kahl, who’s obviously been crunching the Nielsen numbers. Last summer, Survivor averaged 28.2 million viewers — but that was on Wednesday nights opposite reruns. This season, Friends has averaged 20.2 million viewers (about the same as last season) in the face of youth-friendly competition like UPN’s Smackdown! and The WB’s Gilmore Girls. ”I would expect Survivor to skew a bit older than it did on Wednesday, given the younger-skewing competition on the other nets,” says broadcast researcher Steve Sternberg, who thinks Friends has a good chance of dominating the face-off among total viewers. ”But demographically, we could see both shows doing well, with Friends winning among 18-34 and Survivor winning among 18-49.” Share this with your friends Share Tweet Share on Pinterest Post a comment Share via E-mail Share Share this with your friends Share Tweet Share on Pinterest Post a comment Share via E-mail Advertisement Post a comment Read/Post Comments Advertisement Top Stories Benicio Del Toro hints again at 'Star Wars: Episode VIII' involvement 1 hour ago 'Key & Peele' prove Neil deGrasse Tyson can use his brain to get out of anything 1 hour ago 'Arrow' first look: Check out Diggle's new super suit 58 minutes ago 'House of Cards' actor joins 'Luke Cage' as Cottonmouth 1 hour ago Anne Hathaway says she's already losing roles to younger actresses 1 hour ago See Daniel Radcliffe play 'Grand Theft Auto' creator in new movie 2 hours ago The 'Age of Ultron' gag reel proves the Avengers are only human (well, except Thor) 2 hours ago More Headlines Photo Galleries How three worlds collided for the Shondaland cast shoot: See the exclusive photos 8 most polarizing celebrities in 'Dancing With the Stars' history All the VMAs 2015 performances graded VMAs 2015 Red Carpet: See All the Looks! 16 TV characters who stuck around longer than expected Behind Lady Gaga's killer look in 'American Horror Story: Hotel' Heidi & Howie, Chris Evans, Kelly Rowland and More! More Photo Galleries From Our Partners Follow Us! Facebook Twitter Tumblr Instagram Google+ Contact Us Customer Service About Us Jobs at Time Inc. Advertise Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Ad Choices Newsletters Subscribe Terms of Service Site Map Copyright © 2015 Entertainment Weekly Inc. All rights reserved.