Southern California News Group - WikipediaSouthern California News Group From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Los Angeles Newspaper Group) Jump to navigation Jump to search Group of local newspapers in Los Angeles Southern California News Group Type News Headquarters Anaheim, California, U.S. Products Newspapers Website langnews.com The Southern California News Group (SCNG), formerly the San Gabriel Valley News Group and the Los Angeles News Group, is an umbrella group of local daily newspapers published in the greater Los Angeles area by Digital First Media, which is owned by the hedge fund Alden Global Capital. Contents 1 History 2 Newspapers 3 References 3.1 Further reading 4 External links History[edit] Originally named the San Gabriel Valley News Group (SGVN), the organization was formed as an umbrella name for MediaNews Group-operated newspapers in the Los Angeles area. SGVN began when MediaNews Group purchased the Pasadena Star-News, San Gabriel Valley Tribune, and Whittier Daily News from Thomson Corporation in 1996. Thomson had already operated all three newspapers as a unit, sharing news and sports sections among the three papers (which cover geographically adjacent territories) with different story placement based on the region being served. Subsequently, in 1997 the Long Beach Press-Telegram was purchased from Knight-Ridder and in 1998 the Los Angeles Daily News was purchased from Jack Kent Cooke, and the organization was renamed the Los Angeles News Group (LANG). In 1999, LANG acquired three newspapers in the Inland Empire - the Inland Valley Daily Bulletin serving the Pomona Valley/Ontario area and Redlands Daily Facts from Donrey Media, and The San Bernardino Sun from Gannett. Finally, in 2006, LANG acquired the Daily Breeze serving the South Bay area of Los Angeles County from Copley Press.[1] On March 21, 2016, a bankruptcy judge approved the sale of Freedom Communications and its two major newspapers, the Orange County Register and the Riverside Press-Enterprise to Digital First Media.[2][3] Thus, LANG was renamed Southern California News Group. The sale closed on March 31, 2016. Reports from former Freedom Communications writers began appearing in other SCNG newspapers, and vice versa, the next day.[4] The news coverage of the newspapers are mainly local and state stories, including Los Angeles area news provided by City News Service. The newspapers contain some national and international news, often from the Associated Press. The newspapers share coverage and printing presses, with a central copy editing and design desk, and staff writers file the same stories for all members of the group, including sharing sports beat writers, which has caused controversy.[5] The newspapers also share editorials and speak as one voice on regional issues. Some have stated that the former Freedom Communications' distinctive conservative-libertarian editorial voice may be lost in the process.[4] Newspapers[edit] The newspapers include: Daily Breeze - Torrance and the South Bay (acquired from the San Diego-based Copley Press in 2007) Inland Valley Daily Bulletin - Pomona Valley and Ontario; originally were two separate papers: the Pomona Progress-Bulletin and the Ontario Daily Report (merged in April 1990) (acquired in 1999 from Donrey). Press-Telegram - Long Beach serving the greater Long Beach area Los Angeles Daily News - Los Angeles metropolitan area (San Fernando Valley) and Northern Los Angeles County Orange County Register - Anaheim serving Orange County Pasadena Star-News - Pasadena serving the greater Pasadena area Redlands Daily Facts - Redlands (acquired in 1999 from Donrey) serving the Redlands area The Press-Enterprise - Riverside serving western and central Riverside County The San Bernardino Sun - San Bernardino County serving the San Bernardino Valley San Gabriel Valley Tribune - Monrovia serving the central and east San Gabriel Valley Whittier Daily News - Whittier serving the Pico Rivera and Whittier areas Also included are the community weeklies, which include the Palos Verdes Peninsula News and The Beach Reporter, which publishes on Thursdays with the Daily Breeze, the Gazette weeklies cover the Long Beach neighborhoods north and east of downtown, also on Thursdays. The Orange County Register publishes a total of seventeen community weeklies covering most of Orange County, with the exception of Santa Ana. Spanish-language weeklies include Excelsior which have two editions for Los Angeles and Orange counties and La Prensa, which covers the Inland Empire. The inland newspapers (Daily Bulletin, Daily Facts, Press-Enterprise, and Sun) are further subdivided into the Inland Newspapers Group with combined business operations.[6] The former SGVN newspapers are also operated as an integrated business unit, out of the San Gabriel Valley Tribune offices in Monrovia (with the Pasadena office serving as a bureau for the greater Pasadena area). The Daily Breeze and Press-Telegram also have integrated business operations.[7] The union for the Press-Telegram, which was inherited from Knight-Ridder operation, has criticized the demotion of the Press-Telegram Long Beach offices to a bureau, with most work done out of the Daily Breeze in Torrance.[8] Prior to the merger with the Freedom newspapers, LANG identified themselves as editions of the Los Angeles Daily News in order to make LANG a "Top Ten" media buy as ranked by the Alliance for Audited Media.[9] The combined readership of SCNG newspapers is 3.8 million, which if combined would make it the third largest newspaper group in the country.[10] Effective April 1, 2018, all ten daily newspapers covering Los Angeles, Riverside and San Bernardino counties, along with seventeen community weeklies covering Orange County now identify themselves as editions of the Register on the front page. References[edit] ^ "Los Angeles Newspaper Group :: History/Position Statement". www.losangelesnewspapergroup.com. ^ Talking New Media blog: "Bankruptcy judge approves Digital First Media purchase of Freedom Communications assets", by D.B. Hebbard March 21, 2016. ^ LA Observed blog: "Memo: LA News Group now So Cal News Group", by Kevin Roderick, March 21, 2016. ^ a b Yarbrough, Beau; Inl; Bulletin, Valley Daily. "San Gabriel Valley Tribune publisher says OC Register, Riverside Press-Enterprise will remain 'local and independent'". ^ "Tony Jackson Fired; One Reporter Left on Dodgers Beat". www.oberjuerge.com. ^ "MEDIA: News group names VP of advertising – Press Enterprise". ^ "Leslie Lindemann named VP of advertising for Daily Breeze, Press-Telegram". ^ "Long Beach Press-Telegram". January 7, 2016. ^ "Al Martinez pens final column for changing Daily News". LA Observed. ^ "SCNG Audience". southern california news group. Further reading[edit] Bass, Jack (July–August 1999). "Newspaper Monopoly". American Journalism Review. College Park, Maryland: University of Maryland Foundation. External links[edit] Official website v t e MediaNews Group Bay Area News Group1 East Bay Times Marin Independent Journal The Mercury News Southern California News Group1 The Beach Reporter Daily Breeze Inland Valley Daily Bulletin Los Angeles Daily News Orange County Register Pasadena Star-News The Press-Enterprise Press-Telegram Redlands Daily Facts The San Bernardino Sun San Gabriel Valley Tribune Whittier Daily News MediaOne New England Boston Herald Nashoba Publishing Sentinel & Enterprise The Sun Northern California1 Chico Enterprise-Record Daily Democrat Daily News Lake County Record-Bee The Mendocino Beacon The Monterey County Herald Oroville Mercury-Register Paradise Post The Reporter Santa Cruz Sentinel Times-Standard Ukiah Daily Journal Vallejo Times Herald Prairie Mountain Publishing Akron News-Reporter Broomfield Enterprise Brush News-Tribune Burlington Record Cañon City Daily Record Colorado Daily Daily Camera Estes Park Trail-Gazette Fort Morgan Times Journal-Advocate Julesburg Advocate Lamar Ledger Longmont Times-Call Reporter-Herald Other newspapers The Denver Post The Detroit News St. Paul Pioneer Press 1Operated by California Newspapers Partnership, a joint venture with Stephens Media; all or most newspapers in this group are owned by the partnership v t e Digital First Media v t e MediaNews Group Bay Area News Group1 East Bay Times Marin Independent Journal The Mercury News Southern California News Group1 The Beach Reporter Daily Breeze Inland Valley Daily Bulletin Los Angeles Daily News Orange County Register Pasadena Star-News The Press-Enterprise Press-Telegram Redlands Daily Facts The San Bernardino Sun San Gabriel Valley Tribune Whittier Daily News MediaOne New England Boston Herald Nashoba Publishing Sentinel & Enterprise The Sun Northern California1 Chico Enterprise-Record Daily Democrat Daily News Lake County Record-Bee The Mendocino Beacon The Monterey County Herald Oroville Mercury-Register Paradise Post The Reporter Santa Cruz Sentinel Times-Standard Ukiah Daily Journal Vallejo Times Herald Prairie Mountain Publishing Akron News-Reporter Broomfield Enterprise Brush News-Tribune Burlington Record Cañon City Daily Record Colorado Daily Daily Camera Estes Park Trail-Gazette Fort Morgan Times Journal-Advocate Julesburg Advocate Lamar Ledger Longmont Times-Call Reporter-Herald Other newspapers The Denver Post The Detroit News St. Paul Pioneer Press 1Operated by California Newspapers Partnership, a joint venture with Stephens Media; all or most newspapers in this group are owned by the partnership v t e 21st Century Media Daily newspapers Daily Freeman Daily Local News Delaware County Daily Times The Macomb Daily The Mercury The Morning Journal The News-Herald The Oakland Press The Oneida Dispatch The Record The Saratogian The Trentonian Weekly newspapers Ypsilanti Courier All properties List of newspapers published by 21st Century Media Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Southern_California_News_Group&oldid=1033708677" Categories: Newspaper companies of the United States Daily newspapers published in Greater Los Angeles Digital First Media MediaNews Group Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from October 2016 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 15 July 2021, at 10:22 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement