Academy of Television Arts & Sciences - WikipediaAcademy of Television Arts & Sciences From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search American television organization Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Founded 1946; 76 years ago (1946) Tax ID no. 95-3130853 Legal status 501(c)(6) Location North Hollywood, California, United States Area served Television industry Product Primetime Emmy Award Key people Frank Scherma (Chairman and CEO) Revenue (2019) $36,921,627[1] Website televisionacademy.com [redirects to emmys.com, official website of the Emmys and the Television Academy The Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (ATAS), also colloquially known as the Television Academy, is a professional honorary organization dedicated to the advancement of the television industry in the United States. It is a 501(c)(6) non-profit organization founded in 1946, the organization presents the Primetime Emmy Awards, an annual ceremony honoring achievement in U.S. primetime television. Contents 1 History 2 Emmy Award 3 Publications and programs 4 Current governance 4.1 Board of Governors 5 Television Academy Honors 5.1 1st Annual (2008) 5.2 2nd Annual (2009) 5.3 3rd Annual (2010) 5.4 4th Annual (2011) 5.5 5th Annual (2012) 5.6 6th Annual (2013) 5.7 7th Annual (2014) 5.8 8th Annual (2015) 5.9 9th Annual (2016) 5.10 10th Annual (2017) 5.11 11th Annual (2018) 5.12 12th Annual (2019) 6 Hall of Fame 7 See also 8 References 9 External links History[edit] Syd Cassyd considered television a tool for education and envisioned an organization that would act outside the "flash and glamor" of the industry and become an outlet for "serious discussion" and award the industry's "finest achievements".[2] Envisioning a television counterpart of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, Cassyd founded the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences in 1946 in conjunction with leaders of the early television industry who had gathered at a meeting he organized.[3] In 2014, alongside its Hall of Fame induction ceremony and announced plans to expand its headquarters, the organization announced that it had changed its public brand to the Television Academy, with a new logo designed by Siegel + Gale. The new branding was intended to downplay the organization's antiquated formal name in favor of a more straightforward identity, and features a separating line (typically used to separate the organization's wordmark from a simplified image of the Emmy Award statuette) used to symbolize a screen, and also portrayed as a "portal".[4][5] In 2016, producer Hayma Washington was elected chairman and CEO of the Academy of Arts and Sciences, becoming the first African-American to hold the position.[6] Emmy Award[edit] The courtyard and Emmy Award statue at the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences facility on Lankershim In 1949, the Television Academy held the first Emmy Awards ceremony, an annual event created to recognize excellence in U.S. television programming, although the initial event was restricted to programming from the Los Angeles area. The name "Emmy" was derived from "Immy," a nickname for the image orthicon camera tube, which aided the progress of modern television. The word was feminized as "Emmy" to match the statuette, which depicted a winged woman holding an atom. The Emmy Awards are administered by three sister organizations who focus on various sectors of television programming: the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (primetime), the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (daytime, sports, news and documentary), and the International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (international). Publications and programs[edit] In addition to recognizing outstanding programming through its Primetime Emmy Awards, the Television Academy publishes the award-winning emmy magazine and through the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Foundation, is responsible for the Archive of American Television, annual College Television Awards, Fred Rogers Memorial Scholarship, acclaimed student internships and other educational outreach programs. Current governance[edit] Frank Scherma[7] (Chairman & Chief Executive Officer) Steve Venezia, CAS (Vice Chair) Tim Gibbons (Second Vice Chair) Sharon Lieblein, CSA (Secretary) Allison Binder (Treasurer) Mitch Waldow (Los Angeles Area Vice Chair) Bob Bergen (Governors' Appointee) Rickey Minor (Governors' Appointee) Michael Ruscio, ACE (Governors' Appointee) Lori H. Schwartz (Governors' Appointee) Madeline Di Nonno (Chair, Television Academy Foundation)[8] Board of Governors[edit] Animation Janet Dimon Jill Daniels Art Directors/Set Decorators James Pearse Connelly Barbara Cassel Casting Directors Howard Meltzer, CSA Peter Golden, CSA Children's Programming Daniel O. Evans Ted Biaselli, Jr. Choreography Mandy Moore Cinematographers Gary Baum Lowell Peterson, ASC Commercials Ann Leslie Uzdavinis Brian O'Rouke Costume Design & Supervision Sue Bub Terry Ann Gordon Daytime Programming Eva Basler Demirjian Steven Kent Directors Mark Cendrowski Gail Mancuso Documentary Programming Lois Vossen Shari Cookson Electronic Production John O'Brien Kieran Healy Interactive Media Marc Johnson Seth Shapiro Los Angeles Area Paul Button Beatriz Gomez Makeup/Hairstylists Monte C. Haught Terri D. Carter Motion & Title Design Ellen Kahn Lynda Kahn Music Rickey Minor Michael A. Levine Performers Patrika Darbo Lily Tomlin Picture Editors Michael Ruscio, ACE Stuart Bass, ACE Producers Tim Gibbons Hayma Washington Production Executives Keiren Fisher Lucia Gervino Professional Representatives Elizabeth York Janet Carol Norton Public Relations Nicole Marostica Tammy Golihew Reality Programming Bob Boden Jill Dickerson Sound Steve Venezia, CAS Frank Morrone, CAS Sound Editors Eileen Horta Edward Fassl Special Visual Effects Erik Henry Derek Spears Stunts Thom Williams Dorenda Moore Television Executives Tana Nugent Jamieson Sam Linsky Writers Regina Y. Hicks Terence Winter [9] Television Academy Honors[edit] See footnote[10] The Television Academy Honors were established in 2008 to recognize "Television with a Conscience"—television programming that inspires, informs, motivates and even has the power to change lives. 1st Annual (2008)[edit] Alive Day Memories: Home from Iraq Boston Legal Girl Positive God's Warriors Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, "Harm" Pictures of Hollis Woods Planet Earth Shame Side Order of Life 2nd Annual (2009)[edit] A Home for the Holidays (10th Annual) Breaking the Huddle: The Integration of College Football Brothers & Sisters, "Prior Commitments" Extreme Makeover Home Edition, "The Martirez & Malek Families" Masterpiece Contemporary: "God on Trial" Stand Up to Cancer 30 Days Whale Wars 3rd Annual (2010)[edit] CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, "Coup De Grace" Glee, "Wheels" Grandpa, Do You Know Who I Am? With Maria Shriver Explorer, "Inside Death Row" Private Practice, "Nothing To Fear" Taking Chance Unlocking Autism Vanguard, "The OxyContin Express" 4th Annual (2011)[edit] The 16th Man The Big C, "Taking The Plunge" Friday Night Lights, "I Can't" Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution The Oprah Winfrey Show, "A Two-Day Oprah Show Event: 200 Adult Men Who Were Molested Come Forward" Parenthood, "Pilot" Private Practice, "Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" Wartorn 1861–2010 5th Annual (2012)[edit] The Dr. Oz Show The Five Harry's Law, "Head Games" Hot Coffee Men of a Certain Age, "Let the Sun Shine In" Rescue Me, '344" Women, War & Peace 6th Annual (2013)[edit] A Smile as Big as the Moon D.L. Hughley: The Endangered List Half The Sky: Turning Oppression Into Opportunity For Women Worldwide Hunger Hits Home The Newsroom Nick News with Linda Ellerbee One Nation Under Dog: Stories of Fear, Loss & Betrayal Parenthood 7th Annual (2014)[edit] The Big C: Hereafter Comedy Warriors The Fosters Mea Maxima Culpa Mom Screw You Cancer Vice 8th Annual (2015)[edit] black-ish, "Crime and Punishment" E:60, "Dream On: Stories of Boston's Strongest" The Normal Heart Paycheck to Paycheck: The Life & Times of Katrina Gilbert Transparent Virunga 9th Annual (2016)[edit] Born This Way Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief Homeland The Knick Mississippi Inferno Winter on Fire: Ukraine's Fight for Freedom 10th Annual (2017)[edit] Before the Flood The Night Of Speechless This Is Us We Will Rise: Michelle Obama's Mission to Educate Girls Around the World Last Week Tonight with John Oliver 11th Annual (2018)[edit] 13 Reasons Why Andi Mack Daughters of Destiny Forbidden: Undocumented and Queer in Rural America Full Frontal with Samantha Bee LA 92 One Day at a Time 12th Annual (2019)[edit] Alexa & Katie A Million Little Things I Am Evidence My Last Days Pose Rest in Power: The Trayvon Martin Story RBG Hall of Fame[edit] Main article: Television Hall of Fame The Television Academy Hall of Fame was founded by a former president of the ATAS, John H. Mitchell (1921–1988),[11] to honor individuals who have made extraordinary contributions to U.S. television. Inductions are not held every year. See also[edit] Television portal United States portal List of American television awards National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences Primetime Emmy Award References[edit] ^ "Academy of Television Arts & Sciences - Nonprofit Explorer". 9 May 2013. ^ "History". Television Academy. Retrieved January 16, 2017. ^ "Syd Cassyd, 91; Envisioned TV Academy", The New York Times, February 11, 2000. Accessed February 10, 2021. "Syd Cassyd, whose idea it was to found the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, which gives the Emmy Awards, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles.... Mr. Cassyd was working for a trade publication when he had the idea, and in 1946 he organized a meeting of influential figures in the world of television. He believed that television, then in its infancy, had the potential for enormous growth, so the purpose of the 1946 gathering was to talk about creating an organization like the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which had been giving the Academy Awards, known as Oscars, since 1927." ^ "How the Television Academy got its brand mojo back". Fast Co Design. 24 March 2014. Retrieved July 10, 2014. ^ "Television Academy getting $40 million makeover". Deadline.com. 11 March 2014. Retrieved July 10, 2014. ^ "NAACP | NAACP Statement on Election of Hayma Washington to Television Academy". NAACP. November 21, 2016. Retrieved January 16, 2017. ^ "Academy Elects Frank Scherma as Chairman and CEO". emmys.com. Retrieved January 10, 2019. ^ "Executive Committee". emmys.com. Retrieved January 10, 2019. ^ "Executive Committee". emmys.com. ^ "Television Academy Honors". Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. Retrieved 2017-03-30. ^ New York Times obit., January 22, 1988 External links[edit] Television Academy Television Academy Foundation Television shows and discussions by ATAS interviewees v t e North Hollywood, Los Angeles History Incidents North Hollywood shootout Geography Areas NoHo Arts District Education Primary and secondary schools Los Angeles Unified School District East Valley High School Walter Reed Middle School (in Studio City) North Hollywood High School (in Valley Village) Other education Los Angeles Community College District Los Angeles Public Library North Hollywood Amelia Earhart Regional Library Other Landmarks Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery Portal of the Folded Wings Shrine to Aviation Los Angeles Metro stations North Hollywood This list is incomplete. Authority control ISNI 1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Academy_of_Television_Arts_%26_Sciences&oldid=1056205067" Categories: Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Emmy Awards Television organizations in the United States Organizations based in Los Angeles North Hollywood, Los Angeles 1946 establishments in the United States Organizations established in 1946 501(c)(6) nonprofit organizations Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with ISNI identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية বাংলা Español Euskara فارسی Français مصرى 日本語 Norsk bokmål Português Русский Türkçe Українська Edit links This page was last edited on 20 November 2021, at 11:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement