How I Met Your Mother - WikipediaHow I Met Your Mother From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search American sitcom, first aired on CBS from 2005 to 2014 How I Met Your Mother The cast pictured in the opening sequence Genre Sitcom Romantic comedy Comedy-drama Created by Carter Bays Craig Thomas Starring Josh Radnor Jason Segel Cobie Smulders Neil Patrick Harris Alyson Hannigan Cristin Milioti Narrated by Bob Saget Opening theme "Hey, Beautiful" by The Solids Composer John Swihart Country of origin United States Original language English No. of seasons 9 No. of episodes 208 (list of episodes) Production Executive producers Carter Bays Craig Thomas Rob Greenberg Pamela Fryman Eileen Heisler DeAnn Heline Phil Lord Greg Malins Christopher Miller Chris Harris Stephen Lloyd Kourtney Kang Jamie Rhonheimer Chuck Tatham Producers Randy Cordray Suzy Mamann Greenberg Chris Harris Jamie Rhonheimer Kourtney Kang Brenda Hsueh Theresa Mulligan Rosenthal Stewart Halpern-Fingerhut Rob Greenberg Tami Sagher Cinematography Steven V. Silver (pilot) Christian La Fountaine Editor Sue Federman Camera setup Multi-camera Running time 22 minutes Production companies Bays & Thomas Productions 20th Century Fox Television Distributor 20th Television Release Original network CBS Picture format HDTV 1080i Audio format Dolby Digital 5.1 Original release September 19, 2005 (2005-09-19) – March 31, 2014 (2014-03-31) Chronology Related shows How I Met Your Father External links Production website How I Met Your Mother (often abbreviated as HIMYM) is an American sitcom, created by Craig Thomas and Carter Bays for CBS. The series, which aired from 2005 to 2014, follows the main character, Ted Mosby, and his group of friends in New York City's Manhattan. As a framing device, Ted, in the year 2030, recounts to his son, Luke, and daughter, Penny, the events from September 2005 to May 2013 that led him to meet their mother. How I Met Your Mother is a joint production by Bays & Thomas Productions and 20th Television and syndicated by 20th Television (now Disney-ABC Domestic Television). The series was loosely inspired by Thomas and Bays' friendship when they both lived in Chicago.[1] The vast majority of episodes were directed by Pamela Fryman, who directed 196 episodes out of 208. The other directors were Rob Greenberg (7 episodes), Michael Shea (4 episodes), and Neil Patrick Harris (1 episode). Known for its unique structure, humor, and incorporation of dramatic elements, How I Met Your Mother was popular throughout its run. It initially received positive reviews upon release, but reception became more mixed as the seasons went on.[2][3][4][5] The show was nominated for 91 awards and received 21. In 2010, Alyson Hannigan won the People's Choice Award for Favorite TV Comedy Actress. In 2012, seven years after its premiere, the series won the People's Choice Award for Favorite Network TV Comedy, and Neil Patrick Harris won the award for Favorite TV Comedy Actor twice. Contents 1 Premise 2 Production 3 Cast and characters 4 Season synopsis 4.1 Season 1 4.2 Season 2 4.3 Season 3 4.4 Season 4 4.5 Season 5 4.6 Season 6 4.7 Season 7 4.8 Season 8 4.9 Season 9 5 Critical reception 6 Tie-ins 6.1 Books 6.2 Soundtracks 6.3 Pineapple Incident explained 6.4 Websites 6.5 Proposed spin-offs 6.5.1 How I Met Your Dad 6.5.2 How I Met Your Father 7 Nielsen ratings 8 Awards and nominations 9 Home media 10 References 11 External links Premise[edit] The series follows the adventures of Ted Mosby (played by Josh Radnor) and his love life as a single man. His stories are narrated by Bob Saget as Ted Mosby 25 years later as he tells them to his adolescent children. The story goes into a flashback and starts in 2005 with the 27-year-old Ted Mosby living in New York City and working as an architect. The narrative deals primarily with his best friends, including the long-lasting couple Marshall Eriksen (Jason Segel) and Lily Aldrin (Alyson Hannigan), womanizing playboy Barney Stinson (Neil Patrick Harris), and Canadian news reporter Robin Scherbatsky (Cobie Smulders); all of the characters' lives are entwined. The series explores many storylines, including a "will they or won't they" relationship between Robin and each of the two single male friends, Marshall and Lily's relationship, and the ups and downs of the characters' careers. The show's frame story depicts Ted (voice of Bob Saget, uncredited) verbally retelling the story to his son Luke (David Henrie) and daughter Penny (Lyndsy Fonseca) as they sit on the couch in the year 2030. This future-set frame is officially the show's "present day", and How I Met Your Mother exploits this framing device in numerous ways: to depict and re-depict events from multiple points of view; to set up jokes using quick and sometimes multiple flashbacks nested within the oral retelling; to substitute visual, verbal, or aural euphemisms for activities Ted does not want to talk about with his children (sexual practices, use of illicit substances, vulgar language, etc.). While the traditional love story structure begins when the romantic leads first encounter each other, How I Met Your Mother does not introduce Ted's wife (Cristin Milioti) until the eighth-season finale and only announces her name, Tracy McConnell, during the series finale. Production[edit] How I Met Your Mother was inspired by Carter Bays and Craig Thomas' idea to "write about our friends and the stupid stuff we did in New York", where they previously worked as writers for Late Show with David Letterman, among others.[1] The two drew from their friendship in creating the characters. Ted is based loosely on Bays, and Marshall and Lily are based loosely on Thomas and his wife.[6][7] Thomas' wife Rebecca was initially reluctant to have a character based on her but agreed if they could get Alyson Hannigan to play her. Hannigan was looking to do more comedy work and was available.[6] Josh Radnor and Jason Segel, who were cast as Ted and Marshall, respectively, were not well known, although Segel had been a cast member on the short-lived Freaks and Geeks and a recurring guest star on Judd Apatow's follow-up show, Undeclared. The role of Barney was initially envisioned as a "John Belushi-type character"[8] before Neil Patrick Harris won the role after being invited to an audition by the show's casting director Megan Branman.[9] Pamela Fryman invited Bob Saget to be the voiceover narrator, Future Ted, explaining to him that the show would be like The Wonder Years but "kind of into the future".[10] Saget either went to the television studio and recorded the narration while watching the episode, or did so separately and rerecorded with the episode if necessary.[11] He normally did not attend table readings but did so for the last episode.[12] In multiple interviews Bays and Thomas have stated that "a pretty famous actress"[13] turned down the role of Robin, who they revealed in February 2014 was Jennifer Love Hewitt.[14] They then cast the unknown Cobie Smulders; Bays and Thomas later said, "Thank God we did for a million reasons... when Ted's seeing her for the first time, America's seeing her for the first time—the intriguingness of that propelled the show going forward and kept the show alive".[13] Although Ted is initially smitten by Robin in the pilot, it is quickly established at the end of the episode that she is not the mother, which Thomas said was done so they would not repeat the "will they or won't they" Ross and Rachel storyline from Friends.[7] According to an Entertainment Weekly article, the writers adopted facets of each main actor's personality and incorporated them into their characters. This includes Neil Patrick Harris' skills with magic, Jason Segel's passion for songwriting, Alyson Hannigan's absent-mindedness while pregnant, and Josh Radnor's intellectualism.[15] MacLaren's, an Irish bar in the middle of New York City, in which a lot of the show is set, is loosely based on four favorite bars of Bays, Thomas, and others' from the Late Show staff. Others include: McGee's, a Midtown tavern near the Ed Sullivan Theater where the Late Show is taped; McHale's, a legendary Hell's Kitchen bar which closed in 2006; Chumley's, a since-closed historic Greenwich Village pub; and Fez, another closed bar on the Upper West Side.[16] McGee's had a mural that Bays and Thomas both liked and wanted to incorporate into the show.[17] The name for the bar is from Carter Bays' assistant, Carl MacLaren; the bartender in the show is also named Carl.[18] Episodes were generally shot over a three-day period in the Los Angeles-based Soundstage Studio 22[19] and featured upwards of 50 scenes with quick transitions and flashbacks. However, the "Pilot" episode was filmed at CBS Radford.[20] The laugh track was later created by recording an audience being shown the final edited episode. Thomas claimed that shooting before a live audience would have been impossible because of the structure of the show and the numerous flashforwards in each episode and because doing so "would blur the line between 'audience' and 'hostage situation'".[21] Later seasons started filming in front of an audience on occasion, when smaller sets were used. The theme song is a portion of "Hey Beautiful" by The Solids, of which Bays and Thomas are members. Episodes from season 1 generally started with the opening credits. A cold opening has been used since season 2. Viewers then occasionally see Ted's children on a couch and hear him talking to them, telling the story of how he met their mother. Alternatively, scenes from previous episodes or shots of New York City with Ted narrating over the top are shown. Thomas has stated that Future Ted is an unreliable narrator, since he is trying to tell a story that happened over 20 years earlier;[22] this has been a plot point in several episodes including "The Goat", "Oh Honey", "How I Met Everyone Else", and "The Mermaid Theory". Nevertheless, Thomas has also emphasized maintaining a coherent and consistent universe and trying to avoid continuity errors, a problem he noticed in other shows.[23] A scene relating to the identity of the mother, involving Ted's future children, was filmed in 2006 for the show's eventual series finale.[24] This was done because the teenage actors portraying them would be adults by the time the final season was shot.[22] During the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike, How I Met Your Mother shut down production; when the strike ended, the show returned on March 17, 2008, with nine new episodes.[25] The network announced a change in the timeslot to 8:30 pm ET/7:30 pm CT, flip-flopping from the summer schedule with The Big Bang Theory.[26] CBS renewed the show for a fourth season on May 14, 2008,[27] which premiered on September 22, 2008.[28] In September 2008, Lifetime Television announced it had purchased the cable rerun rights to How I Met Your Mother at a rate of about $725,000 per episode.[29] The four-year syndication contract stipulated that the studio deliver at least 110 half-hour episodes by the year 2010 and allowed for up to eight seasons of the show. At the end of the fourth season only 88 episodes had been produced, and a further 22 episodes were required, ensuring that there would be a fifth season.[30] There also was a complication with the writing of the show because of actress Alyson Hannigan's absence due to her pregnancy; in response, the writers had to create episodes that did not include one of the five main characters.[31] On May 19, 2009, the fifth-season renewal was announced.[32] May 20, 2009, CBS announced that How I Met Your Mother would again be aired at 8 pm, leading into the new comedy Accidentally on Purpose. On January 12, 2010, the show aired its 100th episode, and CBS announced that the series would return for a sixth season.[33] Upon learning that the series would be syndicated, Thomas said, "We're thrilled that it will live on in other forms," and they were proud of the show and it was great to see the strong demand.[34] Reruns of the series began airing on local U.S. broadcast television stations and on Chicago-based cable superstation WGN America September 13, 2010. Featured in these airings are vanity cards previously unseen in the CBS and Lifetime airings due to marginalized credit sequences used by the two networks. Shown in between the closing credits and the production company credits, these vanity cards show portions of "The Bro Code", a list of rules frequently referenced by Harris' character, Barney Stinson, on how men should interact with each other, with an emphasis on activities involving pursuing members of the opposite sex. The opening theme song for the syndicated reruns is also slightly edited, running shorter and not using all the pictures seen in the opening montage that runs on DVD and the original CBS broadcasts. The episodes are also slightly shorter, to allow for more commercials during a timeslot in syndication. One of the series' traditions involved giving guest roles to actors from various Joss Whedon productions, many of whom co-starred with Hannigan on Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Bays attributed this to their being "huge fans" and to those casts representing "a big talent pool".[35] On March 4, 2011, CBS announced that the show had been renewed for two more seasons,[36] with the seventh season premiering with back-to-back episodes on September 19, 2011.[37] On July 27, 2011, the FX channel announced it had picked up the series for syndication. On September 5, 2011, FX began airing the series.[38] Cast members had said the show would not run longer than eight seasons,[39] but a ninth season was secured in December 2012 amid tense negotiations with the studios and the actors—especially Segel, who had wanted to move on to other ventures after the eighth season.[40][41] During these negotiations, Bays and Thomas originally approached the eighth season as if it were the show's last, but had a "Plan B" in case the show were renewed.[42] After producers secured a ninth season, they implemented plans to secretly cast the titular future mother, with Cristin Milioti eventually winning the role, having bested at least two other contenders.[13] Milioti first appeared in the last scene in the season eight finale "Something New" and was a regular cast member in the show's final season.[43] This was the first time the show had expanded its core roster.[43][44] In January 2013, How I Met Your Mother was renewed for a ninth season.[45] Carter Bays told Entertainment Weekly that season 9 would "feature some of the most non-linear episodes we've ever done".[46] The season 9 premiere episode aired on September 23, 2013, and the one-hour series finale aired on March 31, 2014.[47] Cast and characters[edit] Main article: List of How I Met Your Mother characters Main cast Josh Radnor Ted Mosby Cobie Smulders Robin Scherbatsky Jason Segel Marshall Eriksen Alyson Hannigan Lily Aldrin Neil Patrick Harris Barney Stinson Cristin Milioti Tracy McConnell Josh Radnor as Ted Mosby, an architect, college professor and the central character of the series. He tells the story of his adult years from his late twenties to his mid thirties, and all the obstacles he overcomes before he meets "The One" (the Mother). This story is told by the Older Ted Mosby, and narrator of the series, Bob Saget. Ted moved to New York City with his friends Marshall and Lily after graduating from Wesleyan University. In New York, he met Barney (at the urinal of MacLaren's) and Robin, to whom he was immediately attracted. Ted is on a quest for happiness and "The One", the woman he will marry. He has many relationships, one with Robin, that reveal the qualities he wants in his future wife. At the end of each relationship, with levity, he reflects on what went wrong. Although hope to find “the one” diminishes with each failed relationship, Ted does not give up. He has more elegant and higher-class interests than his friends. He goes to great lengths to profess his love to the women in his life, but they all falter eventually. Despite these qualities, Ted often acts immaturely, such as in wild activities with Barney. In the show's finale, he says that, in Tracy, he had met the love of his life (the titular Mother), but only after he was finished telling the story did he accept that he was ready to move on and admit he was still in love with Robin. Jason Segel as Marshall Eriksen, Ted Mosby's best friend. Marshall and Ted were roommates at Wesleyan, and remained living together when they moved to New York. In season 2 Marshall marries Lily, with whom he has been in love since his freshman year of college; they have a child during season 7. Marshall was born in St. Cloud, Minnesota, where his family and culture are the foundation of major conflicts he faces in the series. He has an interest in the paranormal and mythical creatures, particularly Sasquatch. His dream to be an environmental lawyer conflicts with his immediate need for money, such as for his wedding and to raise his children. Cobie Smulders as Robin Scherbatsky, a news anchor trying to make it as a journalist who dates both Ted and Barney. Robin emigrated from Canada to take a job at a news station and met Ted at MacLaren's; her Canadian background is a source of many jokes from her friends, for instance, ‘Robin Sparkles’. She is very career-centric and rejects traditional roles, such as getting married and having kids. Robin often drinks scotch and smokes cigars, and is an avid gun fan. She and Barney get engaged and marry in the penultimate episode of the series, but divorce in the first part of the series finale, three years later. Smulders's husband Taran Killam appeared in six episodes as Gary Blauman. Neil Patrick Harris as Barney Stinson, a serial playboy, using his relative wealth and an array of outrageous strategies to seduce women with no intention of engaging in a relationship. His catchphrases include 'Suit Up' and 'Legen-wait-for-it-Dary'. He is Ted's other best friend. Abandoned by his father at a young age, Barney has abandonment issues and clings to his friends. He tells extravagant lies about events in his life as a defense mechanism for his substandard childhood. He marries Robin in the penultimate episode of the series but they divorce after three years in the two-part series finale. In 2020, a failed one-night stand gives him a daughter, Ellie. Harris' husband David Burtka appeared in seven episodes as Scooter. Alyson Hannigan as Lily Aldrin, a kindergarten teacher, aspiring artist, and Marshall's wife. She is terrible at keeping secrets and can be manipulative at times. She marries Marshall in season 2 and gives birth to Marvin in season 7. Though appearing sweet and cute, Lily can be quite unexpectedly fierce. Her best girl friend is Robin, whom she met through Ted as he dated Robin. Hannigan's husband Alexis Denisof appeared in ten episodes as Sandy Rivers. Cristin Milioti as Tracy McConnell (guest - season 8; main - season 9),[43] (although only appearing occasionally, 28 episodes out of 208, she plays an integral part in the show in the buildup to the finale) the future wife of Ted Mosby, The Mother. Tracy is first seen in the finale of season 8, though her name is hinted at in season 1 (01x09 "Belly full of Turkey") and officially revealed in the series finale. Ted falls madly in love with her, but in 2024 she passes away. Bob Saget as Future Ted Mosby (voice only, uncredited) in the year 2030 telling his children the story of how he met their mother. Season synopsis[edit] Main article: List of How I Met Your Mother episodes Season Episodes Originally aired Rank First aired Last aired 1 22 September 19, 2005 (2005-09-19) May 15, 2006 (2006-05-15) 54 2 22 September 18, 2006 (2006-09-18) May 14, 2007 (2007-05-14) 61 3 20 September 24, 2007 (2007-09-24) May 19, 2008 (2008-05-19) 70 4 24 September 22, 2008 (2008-09-22) May 18, 2009 (2009-05-18) 49 5 24 September 21, 2009 (2009-09-21) May 24, 2010 (2010-05-24) 42 6 24 September 20, 2010 (2010-09-20) May 16, 2011 (2011-05-16) 48 7 24 September 19, 2011 (2011-09-19) May 14, 2012 (2012-05-14) 45 8 24 September 24, 2012 (2012-09-24) May 13, 2013 (2013-05-13) 42 9 24 September 23, 2013 (2013-09-23) March 31, 2014 (2014-03-31) 28 Season 1[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 1) In 2030, Ted Mosby (voiced by Bob Saget) sits his children down to tell them the story of how he met their mother. The series begins in September 2005 with Ted (Josh Radnor) as a single, 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from his college years: Marshall Eriksen (Jason Segel), a law student, and Lily Aldrin (Alyson Hannigan), a kindergarten teacher and an aspiring artist. Lily and Marshall have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall finally proposes. Their engagement causes Ted to think about marriage and finding his soul mate, much to the disgust of his self-appointed best friend Barney Stinson (Neil Patrick Harris), whom he met in the restroom at a bar four years earlier. Barney is a serial womanizer who concocts elaborate con games, usually involving costumes and fake identities, designed to bed women, only to lose interest in them immediately afterward. Ted begins his search for his perfect soul mate and meets an ambitious young reporter from Canada, Robin Scherbatsky (Cobie Smulders), with whom he quickly falls in love. Robin, however, does not want to rush into a relationship and the two decide to be friends. Future Ted reveals that Robin is not the mother after referring to her as "Aunt Robin". Ted begins dating a baker, Victoria (Ashley Williams), whom he meets at Stuart and Claudia's wedding, causing Robin to become jealous, and realize she does have feelings for Ted. Victoria is offered a fellowship in pastry-making, moves to Germany and she and Ted try a long-distance relationship. Once Ted learns Robin has feelings for him, he tells her he broke up with Victoria, even though he has not. They almost have sex when Victoria calls and Robin answers, mistaking Ted's phone for her own. Ted and Victoria then break up and an angry Robin distances herself from Ted, but they eventually reconcile and decide to date. Meanwhile, Lily begins to wonder if she has missed any opportunities because of her relationship with Marshall, and decides to pursue an art fellowship in San Francisco, breaking up with Marshall in the process. The season ends with Ted returning to the apartment, the morning after spending the night with Robin for the first time, to find Marshall sitting in the rain with Lily's engagement ring, devastated by their sudden break-up after nine years. Marshall must then call off their wedding. Season 2[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 2) Ted and Robin are now a couple; meanwhile, a heartbroken Marshall tries to continue his life without Lily. After enduring numerous emotional breakdowns, Marshall's friends step in, and Barney, using sly catchphrases and pick-up lines, tries to get Marshall back in the dating game. Marshall becomes Barney's new ‘wingman’ as Ted is now in a relationship with Robin. Barney mentors Marshall in the art of flirting with women. Marshall fails at impressing women, but he finally obtains a barista's number. Later, Lily, after finally realizing she is not meant to be an artist, returns to New York. They remain separated as Marshall begins to date another girl, the barista whose number he earned, described by the gang as having 'crazy eyes'. The date with the girl does not end well and eventually leads to Lily and Marshall becoming reunited, and their engagement eventually resumes. When Robin refuses to go to the mall or explain why, Marshall suspects she is married, and Barney suspects she has performed in adult films. They bet on it, appointing Lily as "Slap Bet Commissioner." Lily oversees the search for the truth, as they discover that Robin was a teenage pop star named "Robin Sparkles", and Marshall eventually earns the right to slap Barney five times whenever he wishes. He uses one slap immediately and another later in the season. It is revealed that Barney has a gay African American half-brother named James (Wayne Brady) and, unaware that his mother lied to him, believes that Bob Barker is his father. As a result of this he takes a trip to California to be a contestant on The Price Is Right to meet his "father". While on the show, Barney wins all the prizes and gives them to Lily and Marshall as a 'happy early wedding' present. In the season finale, Ted reveals to Barney that he and Robin have been broken up for some time due to their conflicting views on marriage and children. They did not tell anyone, in order to avoid taking attention away from Lily and Marshall's wedding. The season ends with Barney's excitement by the prospect of being an unfettered single man with Ted again. Barney's final words are "this is going to be legen- wait for it...". Season 3[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 3) Barney begins the season with the word, "-dary!" Robin returns from a trip to Argentina with her new boyfriend, Gael (Enrique Iglesias), and Ted must adjust to life as just her friend, while watching Robin and Gael fawning over each other. Marshall and Lily decide to move out on their own, falling in love with a place they cannot afford. Marshall is fighting his temptation to take a corporate job with high pay and focusing instead to follow his dream of becoming an environmental lawyer to protect the world from pollution. Robin learns of Lily's bad credit rating due to her compulsive shopping for designer brands, and forces Lily to tell Marshall. Despite this, they are able to finally secure their dream apartment, in Dowisetrepla, only to discover it is in a bad location (DOwnWInd of the SEwage TREatment PLAnt) and more poorly constructed than they thought (the floor is tilted). Barney is slapped for the third time on Thanksgiving, which Marshall dubs "Slapsgiving." Ted tells his children he met their mother through a story concerning her yellow umbrella. He finds the umbrella at a club and takes it home after attending a St. Patrick's Day party where his future wife was, although they did not meet. Ted attempts to woo Stella (Sarah Chalke), a dermatologist he sees to remove an embarrassing butterfly tattoo. This culminates in a memorable "two-minute date," which incorporates small talk, dinner, a movie, coffee, two cab rides, and a goodnight kiss, all within two minutes. Robin sleeps with Barney after he comforts her following a break-up with a past Canadian love; Ted is infuriated, and decides to stop being friends with Barney. Meanwhile, an unknown woman begins to sabotage Barney's attempts to hook up. His saboteur is revealed to be Abby (Britney Spears), Stella's receptionist, with a vendetta against him for not calling her after they had sex. In the season finale, Ted gets into a car accident and ends up in hospital after breaking up with Stella. Subsequently, Barney is hit by a bus while he is on his way to visit Ted and receives treatment in the same hospital. Ted realizes Barney really cares about him and they renew their friendship. Barney's true feelings for Robin are revealed while Ted proposes to Stella in an arcade with a toy kangaroo. Season 4[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 4) Stella says yes to Ted's proposal. Robin takes a new job in Japan, but quickly resigns and returns to New York to attend Ted's wedding, after realizing how much she misses her friends. Stella leaves Ted at the altar to get back together with Tony (Jason Jones), the father of her daughter. Barney struggles with his feelings for Robin as his company shifts him to the management team of a new acquisition, Goliath National Bank (GNB), where Marshall has accepted a position. Marshall and Lily move to their new apartment and debate over whether or not they are ready to have children. Robin is threatened to be deported for not having a job in her field, which opens an opportunity for Barney to spend time with Robin. Robin gets a job as an anchor for a 4 AM news show after Barney submits her video resume, and becomes roommates with Ted. Ted and Robin decide to sleep together constantly so they will not fight over each other's bad co-living habits. Barney attempts to make them stop fighting to prevent this, revealing to Ted his love for Robin. Ted finds out Lily has sabotaged all of his relationships with anyone she does not approve of and indirectly may have inspired his breakup with Robin. Robin and Ted end up talking about it, causing their friendship to begin moving toward a positive note. After Barney finally sleeps with his 200th woman (and rubs it in the face of the childhood bully who taunted him into pursuing it), he begins to question the purpose of the remainder of his life, leaving him more certain of his feelings for Robin. Barney secures Ted a job to design the new Goliath National Bank headquarters. When the company later suspends the project, Marshall and Barney try to hide this fact from Ted. Ted starts his own architectural design company, Mosbius Designs, after getting laid off; however, he is too afraid of failing and refuses to call clients. Ted, while carrying the yellow umbrella, bumps into Stella and Tony. Tony later decides to visit him, sympathizing with Ted over his loss of Stella. Tony offers Ted a job as a professor of architecture at Columbia University, which Ted initially turns down. In the season finale Robin finds out that Barney loves her, and initially refuses to commit to anything but a sex-only relationship; they seemingly end up together anyway. Ted decides that being an architect is leading nowhere, and finally decides instead to become a college professor. The finale ends with Ted preparing to teach his first class and Future Ted revealing to his children that one of the women in the class is their mother. Season 5[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 5) Ted begins his job as a professor of architecture, standing in the middle of a classroom – although the mother was present, it turns out to be an economics class as he's in the wrong lecture hall. Barney and Robin have had a sexual relationship throughout the summer and Lily locks them in a room, forcing them to come to terms with their relationship. After a rough patch they decide to break up. Robin describes it instead as "two friends getting back together." Barney immediately goes back to his old ways, using the playbook to score with women. Throughout the season Barney and Robin show feelings of regret over their break-up. Ted dates a graduate student named Cindy (Rachel Bilson) and it is revealed her roommate is his future wife. Robin meets Don Frank (Benjamin Koldyke), her new co-anchor on her 4 AM TV show. Though she initially dislikes him, the two start dating and eventually she moves in with him. At the end of the season they break up when Don takes a job in Chicago — a job which Robin had previously turned down to stay in New York with Don. Robin moves back into Ted's apartment. Lily's father, Mickey (Chris Elliott), who was absent during her childhood, makes an appearance at Thanksgiving. Mickey and Lily are able to mend their relationship at the end of the meal, where Marshall uses his fourth slap on Barney. Ted discovered that Tony, who stole Stella away from Ted at the altar, wrote a movie on Ted and Stella's relationship. The movie, “The Wedding Bride,” portrays Tony as the hero and Ted as the villain. The movie becomes popular and Ted unexpectedly sees it while on a date with another girl. He is infuriated by how he is portrayed in the movie, and views the actual story as the complete opposite. Ted buys a house, which needs to be fixed up badly, but is later revealed to be the future home for him and his children. Lily and Marshall are still unsure about having children. After watching four doppelgangers of their group (Lesbian Robin, Moustache Marshall, Stripper Lily and Mexican Wrestler Ted) they decide to leave the big decision to the universe's "infinite wisdom" and start trying when they have seen Barney's doppelganger. In the season finale, Barney disguises himself to have sex with a girl from every country in the world, and Lily and Marshall mistake him for the final doppelganger. When Marshall finds out, he decides not to tell Lily, fearing she will want to wait even longer to have children. Lily eventually finds out and decides to wait. Lily thinks she sees Barney's doppelganger as a hot dog vendor, which causes the group to realize she is seeing what she wants to see, and play along. Eventually Barney agrees having babies is not a stupid idea and Lily and Marshall should go forth. The season ends with Lily asking Marshall to "put a baby in my belly". Season 6[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 6) In the season opening, Ted sees Cindy again with a girl who he thinks to be her roommate, but she turns out to be Cindy's girlfriend whom she later marries. After prodding by Barney, Ted is eventually hired by GNB once more as the architect of the bank's new headquarters, which was originally scrapped in Season 4. However, he encounters opposition when he meets Zoey Pierson (Jennifer Morrison), a woman who is protesting against GNB for selecting a decrepit hotel, the Arcadian, to be torn down for the headquarters. Over the season, Ted's encounters with Zoey eventually blossom into a relationship after she divorces her rich husband, the Captain (Kyle MacLachlan). However, when their relationship is challenging and turbulent, they break up, leading to Ted supporting the Arcadian's demolition. Having agreed to conceive a baby at the end of the previous season, Lily and Marshall keep having sex, hoping she will get pregnant. Around Christmas, they have a false alarm and later seek fertility testing. The fertility specialist, Dr. Stangel, turns out to be Barney's doppelganger, fulfilling their promise with the universe in regard to their decision to have a child. However, tragedy strikes when Marshall's father passes away, leaving him devastated and the gang comforting him. Marshall tries to get over his father's death and live again. Despite a pledge to Lily to work harder for their future, Marshall resigns from GNB and follows his dream of being an environmental lawyer. Zoey also hires him as her lawyer in what became a futile battle to save the Arcadian. Barney finally admits to the gang that Bob Barker is not his real father, especially when his mother decides to sell the house he grew up in and his brother, James, meets his own father. Loretta offers the identity of Barney's father on a sheet of paper, but Barney tears this up after realizing her efforts as a single mother. At the funeral of Marshall's father, Barney tells Loretta that he wants to see his father at last. The man, Jerry Whittaker (John Lithgow), is eventually revealed to be someone whom Barney thought was his uncle. Barney, who remembers Jerry as a fun-loving man, is disappointed after learning how Jerry has grown out of his free-wheeling ways. Although he tries to bring back Jerry's old behaviors, Barney admits that he wants to settle down someday. He is also introduced to Nora (Nazanin Boniadi), a co-worker of Robin, for whom he develops feelings. After an initial falling out, the two reconcile at the end of the season after Barney asks her for coffee. Robin continues to work at her talk show, Come On, Get Up, New York!, but the presence of a new hyperactive co-host forces her to leave. She is accepted as a researcher in another network, World Wide News. The gang also discovers more of her past as the Canadian pop star Robin Sparkles. Robin also encounters a man (Michael Trucco) she has had a secret crush on since first seeing him when she and Ted were dating, and Future Ted hints that they will see more of him later. In the season finale, Ted makes the decision that he wants to get back with Zoey. Robin and Barney try to stop them from getting back together. Marshall's interview goes wrong as food poisoning hits him during the meeting; Lily's similar sickness was thought to be food poisoning as well, but is revealed to be morning sickness, as she has become pregnant. Barney and Robin get closure by helping Ted not get back together with Zoey. Short scenes during the season premiere and finale feature a wedding set sometime in the future, where Ted will meet his future wife. In the final scene of the season, the groom is revealed to be Barney. Season 7[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 7) Season seven opens with another flash forward, in which Ted is helping Barney get ready for his wedding to a still-unknown bride. In the present, Marshall gets a job in environmental law while Lily's pregnancy progresses. Barney proves to Nora that he can be a good boyfriend to her, while Robin is revealed to still have feelings for Barney. After a court case for assault, Robin receives mandated therapy. Robin meets a therapist, Kevin (Kal Penn), and they start to date. Meanwhile, after a period of unemployment since leaving GNB, Marshall finally manages to land his dream job at a top environmental law firm. After losing a bet, Barney is forced to wear a tie with a duck pattern on it (nicknamed the 'Ducky Tie') which he hates. Marshall allows him to take it off when meeting Nora's parents on the condition that Barney has three slaps added to the one still remaining from the Slap Bet. Marshall uses two slaps immediately, leaving two left. While reminiscing about Hurricane Irene, Lily and Marshall reveal that they conceived their baby in Barney's apartment, and Barney and Robin end up sleeping together. Barney and Robin decide to break up with their partners, but Robin reneges on the deal, returning to Kevin and leaving Barney alone and heartbroken. Robin has a pregnancy scare at Thanksgiving and tells Barney the child is his, since she and Kevin had not yet slept together. However, Robin's doctor informs her that she cannot have children at all. Kevin, who wants children, proposes to Robin, who decides that they must break up. Ted comforts Robin and reveals he still loves her, but the gesture is unrequited. Eventually, she moves out to give him some space. Marshall and Lily decide they want to move to Long Island, after Lily's paternal grandparents offer them their house there. Eventually, they move back to the old apartment in New York City after realizing suburban life is not for them. Ted gives them his apartment because he believes he cannot move on from Robin while living there, while he and Robin become estranged and do not speak for several weeks. Robin is eventually offered a news anchor job and subsequently achieves recognition after preventing a helicopter she is flying in from crashing. Barney starts dating a stripper named Quinn (Becki Newton), to the group's initial apprehension. The gang begins to meddle in their relationship, but Barney and Quinn outsmart their attempts and win their approval. Quinn moves in with Barney, while Ted rents Quinn's old apartment. Lily goes into labor and frantically calls Barney and Marshall, who are out at a casino in Atlantic City and heavily intoxicated. Barney helps Marshall arrive in time for Lily's delivery and chooses the middle name for the baby, Marvin Waitforit Eriksen. Ted and Robin's friendship also recovers as a result of Marvin's birth. As the season concludes, Marshall and Lily begin a new family with their baby, Marvin. Barney proposes to Quinn performing an extravagant magic trick in airport security. Ted contacts his old girlfriend Victoria; unhappy with her own impending wedding, she leaves her fiancé for Ted and the pair drive off into the sunset. A final flash forward shows the day of Barney's wedding, where Robin is revealed as the bride. Season 8[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 8) Ted visits Robin on the day of her wedding to Barney, causing him to remember how he and Victoria ran away from her wedding to be together. The summer is spent with Ted, Barney, and Robin enjoying their current relationships; however, all subsequently break up with their partners. Victoria splits up with Ted over his friendship with Robin, Barney and Quinn break up due to their inability to trust each other, and Robin breaks up with Nick realizing his immaturity. Robin and Barney kiss but decide not to get together, despite Barney's wishes. Barney then begins dating Robin's hated co-worker Patrice (Ellen D. Williams), a relationship later exposed as a ruse to make Robin realize her true feelings for him. In a culminating scene, Barney proposes to Robin, who says yes. Marshall and Lily attempt to get used to being parents, which causes a brief estrangement from the gang as Baby Marvin takes up the majority of their time. Lily's father Mickey becomes Marvin's nanny, freeing the two up to spend more time with their friends. The Captain, ex-husband of Ted's old girlfriend Zoey, offers Lily a job as an art consultant after she identifies a painting that made a huge profit for him. Lily accepts, happy to finally achieve her dream of having a job in the art industry, while Marshall decides to apply to become a judge. The Captain offers Lily a year's work in Rome, which she accepts with Marshall's blessing. However, just before Barney and Robin's wedding, Marshall is informed that his application to become a judge has been granted, a development that would require them to stay in the US. Ted briefly dates Jeanette (Abby Elliott), a girl who stalked him after he appeared on the cover of New York Magazine for designing GNB's headquarters. He quickly realizes he's made a mistake and breaks up with her. Ted's feelings of loneliness grow, especially as he is now the only single member of the group, and he decides he is truly ready to settle down. He argues with Lily over hiring a DJ or a band for Barney and Robin's wedding, but is forced to provide a band at short notice when Lily concedes the argument. During a chance meeting on the subway, Cindy offers the services of her roommate's wedding band. This roommate is Ted's future wife. As the week of the wedding approaches, Robin has doubts about marrying Barney and shares an emotional moment with Ted. Feeling guilty, Ted realizes he cannot be around Barney and Robin after they are married and decides to move to Chicago the day after the wedding. The season concludes with everyone traveling to Barney and Robin's wedding, including the mother of Ted's children (revealed on screen for the first time and portrayed by Cristin Milioti), who is seen buying a train ticket to the venue and holding her yellow umbrella. Season 9[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Mother (season 9) With the exception of the last episode, the entirety of season nine takes place in the 56 hours leading up to Barney and Robin's wedding. Marshall, who is stuck in Minnesota, desperately tries to find a way to get to the wedding in time. Meanwhile, in Farhampton, the time is slowly counting down to the wedding, with a new problem arising in almost every episode. It is revealed that Lily is pregnant and that she and Marshall will have a daughter. It is also revealed that Ted's children are named Penny and Luke. In the 200th episode, the Mother's eight years before meeting Ted are revealed, while later episodes give viewers a glimpse of Ted and the Mother together in flash forward scenes. Also, Marshall uses his final two slaps from the slap bet: the first being used as an apology present for missing the rehearsal dinner, and the second when Barney begins to panic just before the beginning of the wedding ceremony. In the series finale, it is revealed that after three years of marriage, Barney and Robin decided to divorce. Barney ends up later fathering a child during a one-night stand. Marshall eventually becomes a judge, and he and Lily have three children. Ted's wife, whose name is revealed to be Tracy McConnell, dies of an unknown illness in 2024, six years prior to the time of Ted telling his children the full story of how they met. Upon finishing the story, at the urging of his kids, Ted decides to ask Robin out. Alluding to the first episode, the finale ends with Robin looking out her apartment window to see Ted on the street holding the blue French horn. Following backlash from fans over the ending of the series, an alternative ending was cut together and released on the Season 9 DVD, in which future Ted narrates over the scene in which Ted and Tracy meet at the train station, recapping all major events from the series. He delivers the final line "and that kids is how I met your mother", and the episode ends, completely cutting the final scene with Penny and Luke. Critical reception[edit] The first season was met with generally favorable reviews from critics, although some compared the series unfavorably to Friends. On Metacritic, a review aggregation site that collected 25 reviews for the series, it scored a 69 out of 100.[48] Michael Abernethy of PopMatters gave the season a negative review, writing that "The comedy that does occur in How I Met Your Mother isn't enough to compensate for its inconsistencies."[49] Tom Shales of The Washington Post gave the season a lukewarm review, saying it's "a little better than most other sitcoms, past and present -- especially those featuring wacky urban friends in their twenties experiencing the bittersweet mysteries of life."[50] On the other hand, Melanie Macfarlane of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer gave the season a positive review, saying the show "may not break any comedic ground, but it's the sort of comfortable, reliable hitter CBS needs on Monday nights."[51] The second season received critical acclaim. Staci Krause of IGN gave the season a positive review,[52] calling it "great".[53] The third season was met with mostly positive reviews.[54] Michelle Zoromski of IGN gave the season a positive review, saying that "the season was fun and clever, a good, consistent flow from the first two seasons".[55] The fourth season received critical acclaim. Michelle Zoromski of IGN gave Season 4 an overall rating of 8.5 out of 10, stating that "This fourth season seemed to settle down the chase for the titular mother. While Ted was busy dating Stella, the gang settled into many stand alone episodes which were every bit as entertaining as episodes devoted to Ted's love life". Zoromski went on to say: "A stellar Robin-Marshall episode, titled 'Little Minnesota', makes it clear that these two do not get enough screen time together. With Robin homesick and unemployed (and at risk of being deported), this pairing brought out the best Robin Sparkles reference of the season, when Marshall leads a rousing karaoke version of 'Let's Go to the Mall!'"[56] The fifth season received mixed reviews. Cindy McLennan of Television Without Pity gave the season a mixed review, and at the end of the season wrote: "I'm okay with any given season not being primarily focused on mother-meeting, but this season, the characters seemed to regress -- particularly Barney and Ted. Usually, when a season ends, I have to deal with a week or two weeks' worth of letdown. Right now, all I'm feeling is relief."[57] The sixth season received generally positive reviews.[58] Justin Fowler of Later Reviews gave the season a positive review, saying that the season was "a pretty good season of television" and better than the "poor" fifth season. He also said that "Seventeen out of the 24 episodes are what I would consider good".[59] The seventh season received mixed reviews. Alan Sepinwall gave the season a mixed review and criticized the flash-forwards throughout the season, saying that "the show is just much, much stronger when its stories dwell on matters of the present or the past, and where the writers don't have to act like magicians trying to keep the audience from figuring out how the trick works. And the finale affirmed that belief for me. The parts that had little or nothing to do with things to come were quite good; the parts that were all about the future made me roll my eyes and ask, for the umpteenth time, 'Really? This is where you're going with this?'"[60] The eighth season received mixed reviews and is often considered the worst season of the series. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 54% of critics gave the show a positive review. The consensus reads: "How I Met Your Mother wears out its welcome this season, with an anticlimactic reveal and rote, less-than-fruitful humor."[61] The ninth season received mixed-to-positive reviews from critics, though fans found it worse than prior seasons.[62] Rotten Tomatoes reported that 80% of critics gave the show a positive review, with an average rating of 7.3 out of 10.[63] Gareth Mitchell at "House of Geekery" responded negatively, mostly criticizing the structure of the season, stating that they are "struggling to come up with stories that last out the 22 minutes".[64] The finale of the show received a largely negative reaction from critics and fans. Some complained that the last few seasons had built towards an end game that was discarded within the hour-long episode, while others defended it as true to both the initial concept of the show and to life itself.[65] In the years succeeding its airing, it continued to be singled out as one of the worst television series finales,[66][67][68] e.g., topping USA Today's list of "Worst Series Finales of All Time".[69] Tie-ins[edit] Books[edit] The Bro Code, cited by Barney many times throughout the series, is a set of written rules for bros to follow, and has been published as a tie-in novel, an audiobook,[70] an iPhone Application and an Android Application. Barney alleges it was written by Barnabus Stinson, a contemporary of George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. Many of the rules listed in this book also appear in the show's closing vanity cards in syndication. Bro on the Go, a companion to The Bro Code, released in 2009.[71] Bro Code for Parents: What to Expect When You're Awesome, released in 2012.[72] The Playbook, based on the fifth season episode of the same name, by Barney Stinson and Matt Kuhn.[73] How I Met Your Mother and Philosophy, released in 2013.[74] Soundtracks[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Music (Original Songs from the Hit Series "How I Met Your Mother") A soundtrack album entitled How I Met Your Music: Original Songs from the Hit Series was released digitally to iTunes on September 24, 2012, featuring songs from the first seven seasons[75] A second soundtrack album entitled How I Met Your Music: Deluxe was released digitally to iTunes on September 23, 2014, featuring songs from the final two seasons.[76] Pineapple Incident explained[edit] After the end of the series, the officials released a short video, explaining the running mystery of the pineapple in "The Pineapple Incident", the tenth episode of the first season. The extra footage revealed that a character featured in the 6th season, the Captain (Kyle MacLachlan), had put a pineapple in front of his door as a tradition and Ted took the pineapple while he was drunk.[77] Websites[edit] Websites were consistently mentioned throughout the How I Met Your Mother series. Many of the websites directly tie in to running gags on the show. CBS turned nearly every website mentioned in the series into a real functioning website. Since the shows ending in 2014, majority of the websites remain active.[78] The first Instance of a website tie-in on How I Met Your Mother was on Season 3, Episode 14 'The Bracket' with one of Barney's one-night-stands creating both http://tedmosbyisajerk.com [79]and http://tedmosbyisnotajerk.com.[80] In Season 3, Episode 19 'Everything Must Go' Lily is forced to sell her clothes on the internet because she is in serious credit card debt. She jokes they should call the website http://www.guyforceshiswifetodressinagarbagebagforthenextthreeyears.com.[81] Goliath National Bank (GNB) is first introduced in Season 4, Episode 2 'The Best Burger in New York' and is consistently mentioned throughout the show's run. Barney Stinson, Marshall Eriksen, and Ted Mosby have all worked for GNB. http://www.goliathbank.com.[82] In Season 4, Episode 7 'Not a Fathers Day' as a form of celebration, Barney Stinson creates a fake holiday called “not a fathers day” as well as a subsequent website to promote it: http://www.notafathersday.com.[83] In Season 4, Episode 14 'The Possimpible' Ted Mosby's alter-ego Doctor X was introduced. The episode explained Doctor X's origins and shared his website: http://mysteriousdrx.com.[84] In Season 4, Episode 14 'The Possimpible' Robin Sherbatsky is facing deportation due to unemployment, Barneyattempts to help her by sharing his video resume website: http://www.barneysvideoresume.com.[85] In Season 4, Episode 18 'Old King Clancy' -- the gang is attempting to guess facts about Robins sexual history with the help of http://canadiansexacts.org.[86] This website is now inactive. In Season 5, Episode 4 'The Sexless Innkeeper' Marshall Eriksen createshttp://www.itwasthebestnightever.com[87] to celebrate “the best night ever”. In Season 5, Episode 8 'The Playbook' -- Barney Stinson creates http://www.extremitiesquarterly.com,[88] http://balloonexplorersclub.com,[89] http://www.lorenzovonmatterhorn.com,[90] and http://bigbusinessjournal.com[91] to solidify his fake identity as Lorenzo von Matterhorn as a part of a play in “The Playbook”.[92] In Season 5, Episode 23 'The Wedding Bride' Ted Mosby's ex-finance Stella's new husband releases a successful movie about Ted and Stella's relationship. The website http://www.weddingbridemovie.com[93] was created to promote the fictional movie. In Season 6, Episode 4 'Subway Wars' Ted uses http://grademyteacher.net[94] to see what his college students are writing about him as a professor. In Season 7, Episode 4 'Stinson Missile Crisis' Barney creates two websites: http://www.stinsonbreastreduction.com [95]and http://www.linsonbreastlawsuit.com[96] as part of a play in "The Playbook".[92] In Season 7, Episode 9 'Disaster Averted' Marshall creates the countdown website: http://www.theslapbetcountdown.com[97] to warn Barney of his next slap as a part of their "Slap Bet", which was created five seasons earlier. In Season 7, Episode 13 'Tailgate' Barney and Ted start a bar titled Puzzles and use http://www.puzzlesthebar.com[98] to promote the bar. In Season 7, Episode 23 'The Magician's Code (Part 1)' Ted creates http://www.lilysinlabor.com[99] to announce that Lily is in labor. In Season 8, Episode 3 'Nannies' Marshall and Lily use http://www.heynannynanny.com[100] to find a nanny. In Season 8, Episode 9 'Lobster Crawl' Barney starts a new business called "Bro Bibs" and uses the website http://www.brobibs.com[101] to sell his product. Barney's company is challenged by the competing brand http://www.dudeaprons.com.[102] Proposed spin-offs[edit] How I Met Your Dad[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Dad On November 15, 2013, it was announced that CBS and the series' producer 20th Television would launch How I Met Your Dad, a woman-centric variation executive-produced by Bays, Thomas, and Emily Spivey.[103] The new series would possibly have featured a new bar and would not have tied into the original series.[104] The primary cast of the series was revealed on March 14, 2014, to be Greta Gerwig, Drew Tarver, Nicholas D'Agosto, Krysta Rodriguez and Andrew Santino.[105] Tiya Sircar was cast not longer after on March 26, 2014, replacing Krysta Rodriguez's role in the series.[106] On April 23, 2014, Meg Ryan was announced to voice future Sally.[107] On May 14, 2014, CBS passed on picking up How I Met Your Dad since show creators Craig Thomas and Carter Bays did not want to reshoot the pilot.[108] Nina Tassler, the entertainment president at CBS, stated that "there were elements of the pilot that didn't work out". Talks of the series being "shopped" to other networks emerged.[108][109] Netflix, FOX and NBC were named as possible candidates for picking up the show.[110] Ultimately, nothing came of those talks. It was reported that the options on the cast contracts had expired and they had been released from their contracts and co-creator Carter Bays denied any rumors that the spin-off pilot will be reshot. On July 11, 2014, Bays confirmed that the spin-off project was officially dead.[111] Six days later, Nina Tassler said that CBS would "love the opportunity to take another shot" at the pilot and that she would continue to "hound" Carter Bays and Craig Thomas, even though they shot down the idea of a new version of the project stating that they had both moved on.[112] In 2016, two years after the project was announced "dead", a full script of the pilot episode was leaked online.[113] In 2020, the full pilot episode was also leaked by a Reddit user on the How I Met Your Mother subreddit, which included a modified ending compared to the leaked script from 2016. How I Met Your Father[edit] Main article: How I Met Your Father On December 14, 2016, it was reported that Isaac Aptaker and Elizabeth Berger were set to write a new version of the previous spin-off's pilot, re-titled How I Met Your Father, with Bays and Thomas serving as executive producers.[114] On March 6, 2017, it was announced that following signing new contracts with 20th Television that would see both Aptaker and Berger being promoted to executive producers and co-showrunners on This Is Us alongside Dan Fogelman, their completed spec script for How I Met Your Father would be placed on the back burner in light of their new duties.[115] On August 8, 2017, Fox chairman Dana Walden told Deadline that the studio was set to try a third attempt at a spin-off with different writers due to the unavailability of Aptaker and Berger. It was also stated that all ideas from the previous two attempts will not be carried over and the new attempt will be created from scratch.[116] On August 11, 2017, Deadline reported that Alison Bennett had been selected to write the spin-off. It was also confirmed that this incarnation would be developed under the title used for the Aptaker and Berger project, and that Bays and Thomas are once again attached as executive producers.[117] On April 21, 2021, it was announced that the spin-off series was ordered by Hulu, with Hilary Duff attached to play lead character Sophie. Aptaker and Berger would helm the project as creators, writers, and executive producers.[118] On June 16, 2021, Chris Lowell was announced to have joined the cast in a starring role.[119] On August 10, 2021, Francia Raisa, Tom Ainsley, Tien Tran and Suraj Sharma joined the cast in a starring roles.[120] On August 30, 2021, Daniel Augustin joined the cast in a recurring role, replacing Brandon Micheal Hall, who exited the project due to scheduling conflicts.[121] On January 18, 2022 How I Met Your Father began streaming on Hulu. Rotten Tomatoes reports the new series has a 63% audience score.[122] Critics of the show point out the lack of connection to the original series and call it a “hollow nostalgia grab” alongside the recent resurgence of spin off shows airing such as Fuller House and iCarly.[123] On February 15th, 2022 Hulu renewed How I Met Your Father for a second season which will consist of 20 episodes.[124] Nielsen ratings[edit] Viewership represented in a line graph The show's highest viewed episode was the series finale, "Last Forever", watched by 13.13 million viewers.[125] Previously, the most viewed episode was the season 1 episode "The Pineapple Incident", watched by 12.3 million viewers. The lowest-viewed episode was the season 6 episode "Landmarks", watched by 6.4 million viewers, approximately 52% of the show's previous series high, and approximately 49% of the show's finale viewership. Season nine was the highest watched season overall and among the 18-49 adults, scoring a 4.5 rating in that sector[126] up from the second-highest rating of 4.1 in season seven.[127] Viewership and ratings per season of How I Met Your Mother Season Timeslot (ET) Episodes First aired Last aired TV season Viewership rank Avg. viewers (millions) Date Viewers (millions) Date Viewers (millions) 1 Monday 8:30 pm 22 September 19, 2005 (2005-09-19) 10.94[128] May 15, 2006 (2006-05-15) 8.64[129] 2005–06 54[130] 9.47[130] 2 Monday 8:30 pm (1–3) Monday 8:00 pm (4–22) 22 September 18, 2006 (2006-09-18) 10.48[131] May 14, 2007 (2007-05-14) 9.90[131] 2006–07 61[132] 8.94[132] 3 Monday 8:00 pm (1–11) Monday 8:30 pm (12–20) 20 September 24, 2007 (2007-09-24) 8.12[133] May 19, 2008 (2008-05-19) 7.99[134] 2007–08 70[135] 8.21[135] 4 Monday 8:30 pm 24 September 22, 2008 (2008-09-22) 9.79[136] May 18, 2009 (2009-05-18) 8.73[137] 2008–09 49[138] 9.42[138] 5 Monday 8:00 pm 24 September 21, 2009 (2009-09-21) 9.09[139] May 24, 2010 (2010-05-24) 8.18[140] 2009–10 42[141] 8.60[141] 6 24 September 20, 2010 (2010-09-20) 8.79[142] May 16, 2011 (2011-05-16) 7.15[143] 2010–11 48[144] 8.79[144] 7 24 September 19, 2011 (2011-09-19) 11.00[145] May 14, 2012 (2012-05-14) 8.58[146] 2011–12 45[127] 9.67[127] 8 24 September 24, 2012 (2012-09-24) 8.84[147] May 13, 2013 (2013-05-13) 8.57[148] 2012–13 42[149] 9.02[149] 9 24 September 23, 2013 (2013-09-23) 9.40[150] March 31, 2014 (2014-03-31) 13.13[151] 2013–14 28[126] 10.51[126] Awards and nominations[edit] Main article: List of awards and nominations received by How I Met Your Mother The show has been nominated for 72 awards, winning 18. The show has been nominated for 28 Emmy Awards, including a nomination for Outstanding Comedy Series. Stars Alyson Hannigan and Neil Patrick Harris have each received acting accolades, with both winning People's Choice Awards, and Harris receiving Emmy and Golden Globe nominations. In 2012, seven years after its premiere, the series won the People's Choice for Favorite Network TV Comedy. The show's art direction, editing and cinematography have also been awarded. Home media[edit] DVD season Release dates Episodes Additional information Region 1 Region 2 Region 4 Season 1 November 21, 2006 May 7, 2007 January 10, 2007 22 Includes: commentaries on six episodes a video yearbook 2 music videos ("First Round" and "Last Call") a gag reel Episodes have been cropped from the broadcast widescreen to a full frame 4:3 format Season 2 October 2, 2007 February 8, 2010 April 8, 2008 22 Includes: commentaries on seven episodes How We Make Your Mother 2 music videos ("Let's Go To The Mall" and "Hey Beautiful") 3 "How It Really Happened" scenes a gag reel an Easter Egg. The Legendary Season 3 October 7, 2008 May 10, 2010 February 11, 2009 20 Includes: commentaries on 7 episodes a series retrospective Lily & Marshall's honeymoon videos cast favorites a behind the scenes of "We're Not From Here" 6 "How It Really Happened" scenes 2 music videos ("You Just Got Slapped" and "Sandcastles in the Sand") "Ted Mosby Is A Jerk" audio track a gag reel. The Awesome Season 4 September 29, 2009 July 19, 2010 October 27, 2009 24 Includes: commentaries on 4 episodes A Night With Your Mother: Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Panel Discussion season recap Eriksen's Fight Club a music video ("That Guy's Awesome") a gag reel Also available on Blu-ray, and is the only season to have a subsequent Blu-ray release. The Complete Season 5. The Suited-Up Edition September 21, 2010 November 8, 2010 October 27, 2010 24 Includes: a gag reel music videos for "Super Date", "Nothing Suits Me Like a Suit", and "Best Night Ever" 2 behind the scenes features making of "Super Date" behind the scenes of the 100th episode an extended version of the "Wedding Bride" trailer a musical series recap. The Complete Season 6. The New Is Always Better Edition September 27, 2011 October 3, 2011 October 5, 2011 24 Includes: a gag reel making of "Subway Wars" behind the scenes of "Glitter" commentaries on 3 episodes an extended performance of "Stand By Me" a season recap[152] The Complete Season 7. The Ducky Tie Edition October 2, 2012 October 15, 2012 October 10, 2012 24 Includes: a gag reel 2 behind the scenes featurettes deleted scenes audio commentaries on 3 episodes a feature on Neil Patrick Harris' Hollywood Walk of Fame star.[153] The Complete Season 8. The Yellow Umbrella Edition October 1, 2013 September 30, 2013 November 9, 2013 24 Includes: deleted scenes audio commentary on "Farmhampton" and "The Final Page" music video for "PS I Love You" making of "PS I Love You" Where We Make Your Mother: Set Tour a gag reel. The 9th and Legendary Final Season. The Rest of Your Life Edition[154] September 23, 2014 October 13, 2014 October 22, 2014 24 Includes: Deleted Scenes Audio Commentary on "The Locket" Audio Commentary on "The Rehearsal Dinner" Audio Commentary on "How Your Mother Met Me" Last Forever Alternate Ending How It All Ends Cristin Milioti Audition Behind the Scenes of "Gary Blauman" Gag Reel[154] The Whole Story Seasons 1–9[154] September 23, 2014 October 13, 2014 October 22, 2014 208 Includes: All Out of Spoilers: Looking Back at Your Mother – A Retrospective Table Read of the Series Finale with the Entire Cast The Secret of the Pineapple Incident Revealed Meeting the Mother How I Met Your Mother at Comic-Con 2013-2014 The Mosby Kids: 8 Years on the Couch How We Filmed the Kids Plus All the Special Features from Every Previous Season[154] Seasons 1 through 9 are available to stream on Netflix in Austria, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Latin America, Lebanon, Turkey, Spain, Sweden, the Philippines, Romania, Russia, and the UK; season 9 was released on September 26, 2014.[155][156] Seasons 1-9 were removed from Netflix in the United States as of November 13, 2017 and are now available on Hulu.[157] As of March 2020, Seasons 1 through 9 are available on Amazon Prime Video in Brazil.[158] Seasons 1 through 9 are available to stream on Hotstar in India.[159] As of December 31, 2020, seasons 1-9 are removed from Netflix in The Netherlands. Seasons 1 to 9 are available on Netflix, Stan and Star on Disney+. All 9 seasons are available to stream on Hulu and Amazon Prime Video in the US. Repeats are often shown on 7flix and on 7plus and are shown on Fox Comedy. Note: The whole story DVD had a different package in Region 1 as opposed to Region 2 + 4[citation needed] References[edit] ^ a b "TV Summer School: How to Create and Run a Successful Sitcom". E! Online. August 6, 2007. Archived from the original on June 29, 2011. Retrieved November 11, 2009. ^ "How I Met Your Mother: Season 8 (2012-2013)". Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ McLennan, Cindy. "This Just In". Television Without Pitty. Bravo Media. Archived from the original on May 31, 2014. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Lowe, Alexander (May 14, 2013). "How I Met Your Mother Season 8 Finale Review". wegotthiscovered.com. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Nicholson, Max (April 3, 2014). "HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER: SEASON 9 REVIEW: THE BIG FAT MISDIRECT". IGN Entertainment Inc. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ a b "Alyson Hannigan – "How I Met Your Mother" Sitcom – William S. Paley TV Fest". Whedon.info. March 28, 2006. Retrieved February 13, 2010. ^ a b Ryan, Maureen (April 27, 2006). "Craig Thomas: 'Sitcoms used to be about something'". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Sullivan, Brian Ford (January 8, 2010). "Live at the Paley Center for Media: "How I Met Your Mother"". The Futon Critic. Retrieved June 10, 2012. ^ Dransfeldt, Jeffrey (April 26, 2008). "Harris is enjoying Barney's adventures in How I Met Your Mother". Ventura County Star. Archived from the original on March 14, 2009. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Przybyla, Kathryn (April 30, 2012). "A Chat with Bob Saget". The Buffalo News. Archived from the original on June 15, 2013. Retrieved May 25, 2013. ^ Saget, Bob (April 4, 2014). "Did they show you filmed and cut episodes, or did you just do it all at once?". Reddit. Retrieved April 4, 2014. ^ Saget, Bob (April 4, 2014). "How do you feel about the fact that Josh Radnor was still the older version of Ted on the series finale of HIMYM and not you?". Reddit. Retrieved April 4, 2014. ^ a b c Stransky, Tanner (May 13, 2013). "'HIMYM' unveils the mother! The creators answer your burning questions". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved May 13, 2013. ^ "Jennifer Love Hewitt Turned Down How I Met Your Mother?!". E! Online. February 3, 2014. Retrieved February 3, 2014. ^ Entertainment Weekly (September 6, 2013). ^ Colucci, Jim (April 2008). "How They Created Mother" (PDF). Watch! The CBS Magazine. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ How I Met Your Mother 1st Season DVD Commentary ^ Keller, Joel (May 11, 2007). "Carter Bays of How I Met Your Mother: The TV Squad Interview". tvsquad.com. Archived from the original on May 13, 2007. Retrieved November 11, 2009. ^ "Season 7 Behind the Scenes". CBS. August 13, 2011. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Audio commentary at 00:58 min. of the HIMYM – Season 1 DVD ^ Ryan, Maureen (January 15, 2007). "The Watcher: How 'How I Met Your Mother' is not a traditional sitcom". Chicago Tribune. Archived from the original on October 19, 2018. Retrieved December 22, 2009. ^ a b Ghosh, Korbi. "'How I Met Your Mother's' Craig Thomas on Ted & Barney's Breakup, Eriksen Babies and The Future of Robarn". Zap2it.com. Archived from the original on May 15, 2010. Retrieved April 8, 2014. [He is] a guy who is telling the story so many years in the future, and he jumbles it up in his memory a little bit. He can be an unreliable narrator. ^ "Suit Up for How I Met Your Mother Scoops". Television Without Pity. October 3, 2008. Archived from the original on October 4, 2008. Retrieved October 7, 2011. It's nice to go [online] and see how much continuity matters to people within the universe of a show. That's absolutely true for me, too. Whenever there's the slightest inconsistency in a Buffy episode or Friends or something, my wife and I would sit on the couch and throw stuff at the TV ... When we're doing stuff in the writers room, I really try and remember that. ^ Ryan, Maureen (July 19, 2008). "Barney writes a book, Barney + Robin, Ted + Stella and other 'How I Met Your Mother' news". Chicago Tribune. Retrieved April 8, 2014. He did reveal that more than two years ago ... With only the two kids who play Ted's future children ... they shot a scene that directly relates to the identity of the mother. That scene will be included in the show's series finale, which Thomas said he hopes 'people will see in 2012.' ^ "CBS Sets Series Return Dates". zap2it. Archived from the original on February 16, 2008. Retrieved February 13, 2008. ^ "Breaking News – "The Big Bang Theory" And "How I Met Your Mother" To Swap Time Periods". TheFutonCritic.com. February 20, 2008. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "Upfront: CBS Releases Full Schedule". Broadcastingcable.co. Archived from the original on December 16, 2008. Retrieved May 14, 2008. ^ "CBS Announces 2008–2009 Premiere Dates". The Futon Critic. June 26, 2008. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Nordyke, Kimberly (September 24, 2008). "'Mother' reruns nest at Lifetime". The Hollywood Reporter. Lifetime's four-year licensing deal includes up to eight seasons of "Mother", should the CBS comedy run that long. "Mother" had a big fourth-season premiere Monday, jumping 21% in the ratings over last season. ^ "How I Met Your Mother: Syndication Deal Ensures Season Five for Sitcom". tvseriesfinale.co. September 17, 2008. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "How 'How I Met Your Mother' dealt with 2 pregnant stars, and what's coming next on the comedy - The Watcher". featuresblogs.chicagotribune.com. Archived from the original on September 30, 2018. Retrieved June 8, 2017. ^ Ausiello, Michael (May 19, 2009). "Exclusive: 'Without a Trace,' 'Privileged,' canceled, 'Gossip' spin-off DOA". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on June 3, 2009. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (January 25, 2010). "'How I Met Your Mother' meets Season 6". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Cohn, Angel (October 3, 2008). "Suit Up for How I Met Your Mother Scoops". Television Without Pity. Archived from the original on October 9, 2008. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Gelman, Vlada (April 8, 2014). "'How I Met Your Mother': 'Buffy's' Danny Strong, Alexis Denisof to guest". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 4, 2011. ^ Hibberd, James (March 4, 2011). "'How I met Your Mother' renewed for two seasons". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "CBS announces 2011–2012 premiere dates" (Press release). CBS Express. June 29, 2011. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "FX Fall 2011 Schedule Has How I Met Your Mother; The Nanny Reunion on Happily Divorced" (Press release). Sitcoms Online. July 27, 2011. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother to end after 8 seasons?". TV Series Finale. July 7, 2010. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Chitwood, Adam (December 22, 2012). "HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER Renewed for Ninth and Final Season; Entire Cast Will Return". collider.com. Archived from the original on August 8, 2020. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Mitovich, Matt (December 21, 2012). "Report: How I Met Your Mother Renewed for 9th Season After Jason Segel's 11th-Hour Reversal". tvline.com. Retrieved December 22, 2012. ^ Rome, Emily (September 24, 2012). "'How I Met Your Mother': Showrunners talk about the (possible) beginning of the end". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ a b c Ausiello, Michael (May 17, 2013). "Exclusive: How I Met Your Mother Makes Cristin 'Mom' Milioti a Full-Fledged Series Regular". TVLine.com. Retrieved April 8, 2014. Cristin Milioti, who was unmasked as the titular mom in this week's season finale, took the title of series regular during the comedy's upcoming ninth and final season. This marks the first time HIMYM will have expanded its core group of regulars beyond stars Josh Radnor, Alyson Hannigan, Neil Patrick Harris, Cobie Smulders and Jason Segel. ^ "'How I Met Your Mother' Makes Cristin Milioti a Series Regular". The Hollywood Reporter. May 17, 2013. Retrieved May 18, 2013. ^ Ausiello, Michael (January 30, 2013). "'How I Met Your Mother' Season 9 Spoilers — We Will Meet the Mother". TVLine. Retrieved November 16, 2013. ^ "'NCIS,' 'Downton Abbey,' 'Scandal,' 'Grey's Anatomy': Find out what's next in the Spoiler Room". Entertainment Weekly. May 16, 2013. Retrieved May 20, 2013. ^ Kissell, Rick (December 19, 2013). "CBS' 'How I Met Your Mother' to Get Hourlong Series Finale". Variety. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother: Season 1". Metacritic. Retrieved November 27, 2017. ^ Abernethy, Michael (October 2, 2005). "How I Met Your Mother Review". PopMatters. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Shales, Tom (September 19, 2005). "How I Met Your Mother Review". The Washington Post. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ MacFarland, Melanie (September 11, 2005). "Fall TV: Seek and ye shall find something worth watching". Seattle Post-Intelligencer. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother Season 2 Review". IGN. November 20, 2006. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Krause, Staci (May 15, 2007). "How I Met Your Mother: "Something Blue" Review". IGN. San Francisco, California: j2 Global. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Wheat, Alynda (October 8, 2008). "How I Met Your Mother: Season 3". Entertainment Weekly. New York City: Meredith Corporation. Archived from the original on May 31, 2014. Retrieved May 31, 2014. ^ Zoromski, Michelle (May 29, 2008). "How I Met Your Mother: Season 3 Review". IGN. San Francisco, California: j2 Global. Retrieved May 31, 2014. ^ Zoromski, Michelle (May 27, 2009). "How I Met Your Mother: Season 4 Review: The one where they hide the pregnancies". IGN. San Francisco, California: j2 Global. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ McLennan, Cindy. "This Just In". Television Without Pity. New York City: Bravo Media. Archived from the original on May 31, 2014. Retrieved May 30, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother Season 6 Episode Reviews". The A.V. Club. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Fowler, Justin (May 28, 2011). "How I Met Your Mother: Season 6 in Review or Ranking the Episodes". Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ Sepinwall, Alan. "Season finale review: 'How I Met Your Mother' - 'The Magician's Code': Miss Direction". Hitfix. Hitfix INC. Retrieved June 9, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother: Season 8 (2012-2013)". Rotten Tomatoes. San Francisco, California: Fandango Media. Retrieved May 30, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother: Season 9". Metacritic. Retrieved November 27, 2017. ^ "How I Met Your Mother: Season 9". Rotten Tomatoes. ^ Mitchell, Gareth (November 5, 2013). "How I Met Your Mother Final Season Needs to be Left at the Altar". House of Geekery. San Francisco, California: WordPress. Retrieved November 5, 2013. ^ Alex Heigl; Cara Shultz (April 1, 2014). "How I Met Your Mother Fans Split on Finale: Great Finish, or Disappointment?". People. Archived from the original on April 24, 2016. Retrieved March 22, 2015. ^ "End Game: TV's Best and Worst Series Finales". Rolling Stone. New York City: Wenner Media. May 12, 2015. ^ "The 12 worst TV series finales of all time, from 'Seinfeld' to 'Girls'". Business Insider. ^ "10 of the best and worst TV series finales through the years". Fox News. March 20, 2018. ^ Lawler, Kelly (May 31, 2018). "The 10 best (and five worst) TV series finales of all time". USA Today. Mclean, Virginia: Gannett. Retrieved July 30, 2018. ^ Stinson, Barney (2008). The Bro Code. New York: Fireside. ISBN 978-1-4391-1000-3. ^ Stinson, Barney (2009). Bro on the Go. Fireside. ISBN 978-1-4391-7313-8. ^ Stinson, Barney (2012). Bro Code for Parents: What to Expect When You're Awesome. Touchstone. ISBN 978-1-4516-9058-3. ^ The Playbook. Touchstone. October 5, 2010. ISBN 978-1-4391-9683-0. ^ von Matterhorn, Lorenzo, ed. (October 5, 2010). Popular Culture and Philosophy. Open Court Books. ISBN 978-0-8126-9835-0. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ Gonzalez, Sandra (September 18, 2012). "'How I Met Your Mother' soundtrack: See the full listings! – EXCLUSIVE". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved February 5, 2013. ^ "How I met your music deluxe". 20th Century Fox. September 23, 2014. Retrieved April 9, 2017 – via Apple iTunes. ^ Goodman, Jessica (September 19, 2014). "'How I Met Your Mother' Pineapple Incident Mystery Is Finally Revealed". The Huffington Post. New York City: Huffington Post Media Group. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ "Every Website Used In 'How I Met Your Mother' Really Exists, Including Barney Stinson's Blog". www.mensxp.com. August 1, 2020. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "WARNING !!!". Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Ted Mosby is Not a Jerk!!!". tedmosbyisnotajerk.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "guy forces his wife to dress in a garbage bag for the next three years". www.guyforceshiswifetodressinagarbagebagforthenextthreeyears.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Goliath National Bank - Your Financial Wingman". www.goliathbank.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Fox Shop - Not A Fathers Day". www.notafathersday.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "//////// D O C T O R X \\\\\\\\". mysteriousdrx.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Barney Stinson's Video Resume". www.barneysvideoresume.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Canadian Sex Acts". Archived from the original on June 9, 2021. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Best Night Ever". www.itwasthebestnightever.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Extremities Quarterly | Phallumegaly - Lorenzo von Matterhorn". www.extremitiesquarterly.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Balloon Explorers Club | Featured Member". balloonexplorersclub.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Lorenzopedia, the free encyclopedia". www.lorenzovonmatterhorn.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "bigbusinessjournal". Archived from the original on August 14, 2010. Retrieved July 27, 2010. ^ a b Kuhn, Matt (2010). The playbook. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-4391-9683-0. OCLC 555638294. ^ "The Wedding Bride Movie". Archived from the original on December 14, 2012. Retrieved January 6, 2010. ^ "Grade My Teacher - Ted Mosby Page". grademyteacher.net. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Stinson Breast Reduction". www.stinsonbreastreduction.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Linson Breast Lawsuit". ^ "Slapbet Countdown". www.theslapbetcountdown.com. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Puzzles the Bar". Archived from the original on November 12, 2018. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Lily is in Labor". Archived from the original on May 17, 2014. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Hey Nanny Nanny". Archived from the original on September 7, 2013. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Bro Bibs". Archived from the original on December 8, 2012. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ "Dude Aprons". Archived from the original on September 6, 2013. Retrieved March 2, 2022. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (November 15, 2013). "'How I Met Your Mother' Spinoff – CBS Orders Pilot". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved November 16, 2013. ^ Lintz, Kristina (November 16, 2013). "'HIMYM' spinoff 'How I Met Your Dad' ordered, show creators tweet info". Hypable.com. Archived from the original on November 18, 2013. Retrieved November 16, 2013. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (March 14, 2014). "Nick D'Agosto & Andrew Santino To Star In CBS' 'HIMYM' Spinoff 'How I Met Your Dad'". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. ^ "Tiya Sircar Lands Vacant Lead Role in CBS' 'How I Met Your Dad' Pilot". March 26, 2014. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (April 23, 2014). "Meg Ryan To Voice The Mother In CBS' 'How I Met Your Dad'". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved April 23, 2014. ^ a b "CBS Passes on How I Met Your Dad". IGN. San Francisco, California: j2 Global. May 14, 2014. Retrieved May 14, 2014. ^ Frizell, Sam (May 14, 2014). "CBS Has Passed On How I Met Your Dad". Time. New York City: Meredith Corporation. Retrieved May 14, 2014. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (May 15, 2014). "What Pilots Are Still Alive, What Pilots Are Being Shopped". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved May 16, 2014. ^ "Carter Bays on Twitter". Twitter. Retrieved December 2, 2014. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (July 17, 2014). "What 2014 Broadcast Pilots Are Still Alive — Full List". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved December 2, 2014. ^ "The "How I Met Your Dad" pilot script leaked online and we're bummed it's not happening". HelloGiggles. Retrieved May 4, 2021. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (December 14, 2016). "New 'How I Met Your Mother' Dad Spinoff In Works With 'This Is Us' Writing Duo". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved March 15, 2017. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (March 6, 2017). "'This Is Us': Isaac Aptaker & Elizabeth Berger Named Co-Showrunners In New 20th TV Deal, 'HIMYM' Spinoff On Hold". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved March 15, 2017. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (August 8, 2017). "'How I Met Your Mother' Spinoff To Get Another Shot With New Writers, 'Modern Family' & 'Empire' Spinoffs Also Possible". Retrieved September 1, 2017. ^ Andreeva, Nellie (August 11, 2017). "'How I Met Your Father': Alison Bennett Tapped To Write New 'HIMYM' Spinoff". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. Retrieved September 1, 2017. ^ White, Peter (April 21, 2021). "'How I Met Your Father': Hulu Hands 'How I Met Your Mother' Spinoff Straight-To-Series Order With Hilary Duff To Star, Isaac Aptaker & Elizabeth Berger To Run". Deadline. Retrieved April 21, 2021. ^ Andreeva, Nellie; Petski, Denise (June 16, 2021). "'How I Met Your Father': Chris Lowell Joins Hilary Duff In Hulu's 'How I Met Your Mother' Spinoff Series". Deadline Hollywood. ^ Petski, Denise (August 10, 2021). "'How I Met Your Father': Francia Raisa, Tom Ainsley, Tien Tran & Suraj Sharma Join Hulu's 'How I Met Your Mother' Spinoff". Deadline Hollywood. ^ Petski, Denise (August 31, 2021). "'How I Met Your Father': Daniel Augustin Joins Hulu's 'How I Met Your Mother' Spinoff In Recasting". Deadline. Retrieved August 31, 2021.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: url-status (link) ^ How I Met Your Father, retrieved March 2, 2022 ^ Porter, Rick; Porter, Rick (February 15, 2022). "'How I Met Your Father' Earns Season 2 Renewal at Hulu". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved March 1, 2022. ^ Fuentes, Tamara (February 15, 2022). "'How I Met Your Father' Grabs Quick Season 2 Renewal". Cosmopolitan. Retrieved March 1, 2022. ^ Bibel, Sara (April 1, 2014). "TV Ratings Monday: 'How I Met Your Mother' Finale Hits High, 'Bones' & 'The Tomorrow People' Up, 'The Voice' Down". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on April 4, 2014. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ a b c "Full 2013-2014 TV Season Series Rankings". Deadline Hollywood. Los Angeles, California: Penske Media Corporation. May 22, 2014. Retrieved May 28, 2014. ^ a b c Gorman, Bill (May 24, 2012). "Complete List Of 2011–12 Season TV Show Ratings: 'Sunday Night Football' Tops, Followed By 'American Idol,' 'NCIS' & 'Dancing With The Stars'". Tvbythenumbers. New York City: Nexstar Communications. Archived from the original on December 2, 2013. Retrieved April 8, 2014. ^ "September 19–25, 2005 weekly program rankings". ABC Television Group. Archived from the original on June 1, 2009. Retrieved December 19, 2010. ^ "May 15–21, 2006 weekly program rankings". ABC Television Group. Retrieved December 19, 2010. ^ a b "How I Met Your Mother ratings". ABCmedianet. Archived from the original on March 10, 2007. Retrieved December 24, 2009. ^ a b "ABC Medianet". ABC Television Group. Archived from the original on March 29, 2012. Retrieved August 12, 2013. ^ a b "How I Met Your Mother ratings". ABCmedianet. Archived from the original on January 2, 2012. Retrieved December 24, 2009. ^ "Weekly Program Rankings". ABC Medianet. October 2, 2007. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved August 13, 2013. ^ Gorman, Bill (May 28, 2008). "Top CBS Primetime Shows, May 19–25". Archived from the original on September 25, 2008. Retrieved August 13, 2013. ^ a b "Season Program Rankings from 09/24/07 through 05/25/08". ABC Medianet. May 28, 2008. Archived from the original on April 13, 2010. Retrieved July 3, 2009. ^ Gorman, Bill (September 30, 2008). "Top CBS Primetime Shows, September 22–28". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on November 5, 2013. Retrieved August 12, 2013. ^ "PRESS RELEASE - ENTERTAINMENT - WEEKLY RANKINGS (WK OF 5/18)". ABCMedianet. Retrieved August 12, 2013. ^ a b "Season Program Rankings from 09/22/08 through 05/17/09". ABC Medianet. May 19, 2009. Archived from the original on June 23, 2009. Retrieved July 3, 2009. ^ Seidman, Robert (September 22, 2009). "Monday broadcast final numbers". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 5, 2009. Retrieved August 12, 2013. ^ "TV Ratings: Overnight Nielsen TV Ratings for Monday, May 24, 2010: , Chuck finale ratings, Dancing With the Stars ratings, 24 finale ratings, The Bachelorette ratings, Law & Order finale ratings, One Tree Hill ratings, Gossip Girl ratings, Two and a Half Men ratings, The Big Bang Theory ratings, How I Met Your Mother ratings, CSI: Miami ratings, Rules of Engagement ratings - Ratings". TVbytheNumbers. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved March 25, 2012. ^ a b Andreeva, Nellie (May 27, 2010). "Full Series Rankings For The 2009–10 Broadcast Season". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved December 18, 2010. ^ Seidman, Robert (September 21, 2010). "Monday Finals: 'Hawaii Five-0,' 'Two and a Half Men,' 'DWTS,' 'House' Gain; 'Chuck,' 'The Event', Chase, Castle Drop". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on November 16, 2010. Retrieved September 21, 2010. ^ Seidman, Robert (May 18, 2011). "Monday Final Ratings: 'Dancing,' 'Hawaii Five-0,' 'How I Met Your Mother,' 'Mad Love,' 'Mike & Molly' Adjusted Up; 'The Chicago Code' Adjusted Down". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on May 21, 2011. Retrieved May 18, 2011. ^ a b Gorman, Bill (June 1, 2011). "2010–11 Season Broadcast Primetime Show Viewership Averages". TV by Numbers. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved August 6, 2011. ^ Seidman, Robert (September 20, 2011). "Monday Broadcast Final Ratings: 'Two and a Half Men,' '2 Broke Girls,' DWTS Adjusted Up; 'Castle' Adjusted Down". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 16, 2011. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Bibel, Sara (May 15, 2012). "Monday Final Ratings: 'How I Met Your Mother', 'Two and a Half Men', 'Mike & Molly', 'America's Got Talent' & 'The Bachelorette' Adjusted Up". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on May 18, 2012. Retrieved May 15, 2012. ^ Kondolojy, Amanda (September 25, 2012). "Monday Final Ratings: 'How I Met Your Mother', 'Mike and Molly', 'Voice', 'Bones' Adjusted Up; 'DWTS', 'Revolution', 'Castle' 'Hawaii Five-0' & 'LA Complex' Adjusted Down". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on October 14, 2012. Retrieved September 25, 2012. ^ Kondolojy, Amanda (May 14, 2013). "Monday Final Ratings: 'The Voice', '2 Broke Girls' & 'Hell's Kitchen' Adjusted Up; '90210' & 'Castle' Adjusted Down". Archived from the original on June 7, 2013. Retrieved May 14, 2013. ^ a b Patten, Dominic (May 23, 2013). "Full 2012–2013 TV Season Series Rankings". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved May 27, 2013. ^ Kondolojy, Amanda. "Monday Final TV Ratings: 'The Voice' & 'How I Met Your Mother' Adjusted Up; No Adjustment for 'Hostages' or 'The Blacklist'". TV by the Numbers. Archived from the original on September 27, 2013. Retrieved September 24, 2013. ^ Bibel, Sara (April 1, 2014). "Monday Final TV Ratings: 'How I Met Your Mother' & 'Dancing With The Stars' Adjusted Up; 'Friends With Better Lives' Adjusted Down". Twitter. Archived from the original on April 4, 2014. Retrieved April 1, 2014. ^ "How I Met Your Mother DVD news: Announcement for How I Met Your Mother – Season 6". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on August 3, 2011. Retrieved August 6, 2011. ^ "How I Met Your Mother DVD news: Announcement for How I Met Your Mother – Season 7". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on July 21, 2012. Retrieved September 2, 2012. ^ a b c d "How I Met Your Mother DVD news: Press Release for Season 9 and The Whole Story". TVShowsOnDVD.com. Archived from the original on December 7, 2014. Retrieved December 2, 2014. ^ Remling, Amanda (August 31, 2014). "Fall TV 2014 Preview: Catch Up On Your Favorite TV Shows With Netflix New Releases". International Business Times. IBT Media. Retrieved January 11, 2015. ^ West, Amy (December 3, 2015). "Top 5 Netflix recommendations of the week: How I Met Your Mother, American Beauty and more". IBTimes. Retrieved April 5, 2016. ^ Rubin, Rebecca (October 30, 2017). "What's Leaving Netflix in November 2017". Variety. Retrieved November 21, 2017. ^ Gusman, Giullia (February 28, 2020). ""How I Met Your Mother" ficará disponível no Amazon Prime em março". PopCultura. Retrieved September 15, 2020. ^ How I Met Your Mother - Disney+ Hotstar, December 2021 External links[edit] How I Met Your Motherat Wikipedia's sister projects Media from Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Data from Wikidata How I Met Your Mother at Curlie How I Met Your Mother at IMDb How I Met Your Dad at IMDb v t e How I Met Your Mother Episodes Season 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Characters Ted Mosby Marshall Eriksen Lily Aldrin Barney Stinson Robin Scherbatsky Tracy McConnell Soundtracks "Let's Go to the Mall" "Sandcastles in the Sand" "Nothing Suits Me Like a Suit" "P.S. I Love You" Related articles Awards and nominations Bro Code Cheerleader effect "How I Wet Your Mother" How I Met Your Dad How I Met Your Father v t e How I Met Your Mother episodes Seasons: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Season 1 "Pilot" "Purple Giraffe" "Belly Full of Turkey" "The Pineapple Incident" "The Limo" "The Wedding" "Nothing Good Happens After 2 A.M." "Mary the Paralegal" "Best Prom Ever" Season 2 "Where Were We?" "Ted Mosby: Architect" "Aldrin Justice" "Swarley" "Slap Bet" "Single Stamina" "How Lily Stole Christmas" "First Time in New York" "Columns" "Monday Night Football" "Lucky Penny" "Bachelor Party" "Something Blue" Season 3 "Wait for It" "We're Not from Here" "Third Wheel" "Little Boys" "How I Met Everyone Else" "I'm Not That Guy" "Dowisetrepla" "Spoiler Alert" "Slapsgiving" "The Yips" "The Platinum Rule" "No Tomorrow" "Ten Sessions" "The Bracket" "The Chain of Screaming" "Sandcastles in the Sand" "The Goat" "Rebound Bro" "Everything Must Go" "Miracles" Season 4 "Do I Know You?" "The Best Burger in New York" "I Heart NJ" "Intervention" "Shelter Island" "Happily Ever After" "Not a Father's Day" "Woooo!" "The Fight" "Little Minnesota" "Benefits" "Three Days of Snow" "The Possimpible" "The Stinsons" "Sorry, Bro" "The Front Porch" "Old King Clancy" "Murtaugh" "Mosbius Designs" "The Three Days Rule" "Right Place, Right Time" "As Fast as She Can" "The Leap" Season 5 "Definitions" "Double Date" "Robin 101" "The Sexless Innkeeper" "Duel Citizenship" "Bagpipes" "The Rough Patch" "The Playbook" "Slapsgiving 2: Revenge of the Slap" "The Window" "Last Cigarette Ever" "Girls Versus Suits" "Jenkins" "Perfect Week" "Rabbit or Duck" "Hooked" "Of Course" "Say Cheese" "Zoo or False" "Home Wreckers" "Twin Beds" "Robots Versus Wrestlers" "The Wedding Bride" "Doppelgangers" Season 6 "Big Days" "Cleaning House" "Unfinished" "Subway Wars" "Architect of Destruction" "Baby Talk" "Canning Randy" "Natural History" "Glitter" "Blitzgiving" "The Mermaid Theory" "False Positive" "Bad News" "Last Words" "Oh Honey" "Desperation Day" "Garbage Island" "A Change of Heart" "Legendaddy" "The Exploding Meatball Sub" "Hopeless" "The Perfect Cocktail" "Landmarks" "Challenge Accepted" Season 7 "The Best Man" "The Naked Truth" "Ducky Tie" "The Stinson Missile Crisis" "Field Trip" "Mystery vs. History" "Noretta" "The Slutty Pumpkin Returns" "Disaster Averted" "Tick, Tick, Tick..." "The Rebound Girl" "Symphony of Illumination" "Tailgate" "46 Minutes" "The Burning Beekeeper" "The Drunk Train" "No Pressure" "Karma" "Trilogy Time" "Now We're Even" "Good Crazy" "The Magician's Code" Season 8 "Farhampton" "The Pre-Nup" "Nannies" "Who Wants to Be a Godparent?" "The Autumn of Break-Ups" "Splitsville" "The Stamp Tramp" "Twelve Horny Women" "Lobster Crawl" "The Over-Correction" "The Final Page" "Band or DJ?" "Ring Up!" "P.S. I Love You" "Bad Crazy" "The Ashtray" "Weekend at Barney's" "The Fortress" "The Time Travelers" "Romeward Bound" "The Bro Mitzvah" "Something Old" "Something New" Season 9 "The Locket" "Coming Back" "Last Time in New York" "The Broken Code" "The Poker Game" "Knight Vision" "No Questions Asked" "The Lighthouse" "Platonish" "Mom and Dad" "Bedtime Stories" "The Rehearsal Dinner" "Bass Player Wanted" "Slapsgiving 3: Slappointment in Slapmarra" "Unpause" "How Your Mother Met Me" "Sunrise" "Rally" "Vesuvius" "Daisy" "Gary Blauman" "The End of the Aisle" "Last Forever" Category Authority control General VIAF 1 WorldCat (via VIAF) National libraries Germany United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=How_I_Met_Your_Mother&oldid=1075779089" Categories: How I Met Your Mother 2005 American television series debuts 2014 American television series endings 2000s American romantic comedy television series 2000s American sitcoms 2010s American romantic comedy television series 2010s American sitcoms CBS original programming English-language television shows Fiction with unreliable narrators Nonlinear narrative television series Television series by 20th Century Fox Television Television shows set in Manhattan Television shows filmed in Los Angeles Television series about couples Television series about television Television series set in the 1980s Television series set in the 1990s Television series set in the 2000s Television series set in the 2010s Hidden categories: CS1 maint: url-status Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from March 2021 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2019 Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata Articles with Curlie links Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with WorldCat-VIAF identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Languages العربية অসমীয়া Asturianu Avañe'ẽ বাংলা Беларуская (тарашкевіца) Български Bosanski Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego ગુજરાતી 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Kreyòl ayisyen Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Plattdüütsch Polski Português Română Русский Scots Shqip Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย Türkçe Thuɔŋjäŋ Українська Vèneto Tiếng Việt 文言 吴语 粵語 Zazaki 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 7 March 2022, at 17:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement