Finding the Absolutely Perfect Actor -  The High-Stress Business of Casting - NYTimes.com37 captures 19 Feb 2012 - 12 Feb 2022 Apr OCT Apr 08 2015 2016 2017 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20161008185205/http://www.nytimes.com:80/1994/04/06/arts/finding-the-absolutely-perfect-actor-the-high-stress-business-of-casting.html Campaign ID: 277474 | Creative: bar1_button_inyt_usd_4L9UF -- 413757 | Page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/arts / Targeted Page: www.nytimes.com/archive/article/arts | Position: Bar1 Subscribe NowSubscribe Log In Register Now Help Home Page Today's Paper Video Most Popular Edition: U.S. / Global Search All NYTimes.com Arts World U.S. N.Y. / Region Business Technology Science Health Sports Opinion Arts Art & Design Books Dance Movies Music Television Theater Events International Arts Style Travel Jobs Real Estate Autos Finding the Absolutely Perfect Actor: The High-Stress Business of Casting By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Published: April 6, 1994 LOS ANGELES, April 1— Marta Kauffman and David Crane are sitting together on a long white couch, trying to find Joey. When they sent out the "breakdown" for the casting call, they described him as a "handsome, smug, macho guy in his 20's" who loves "women, sports, women, New York, women," and most of all, himself. Now they are listening to a man who would be Joey philosophize in a smug, macho way about women and ice cream. "What are you talking about, 'one woman?' " he says, affecting a New York accent that is part De Niro, part DeVito. "One woman? That's like sayin' there's only one flavor of ice cream for you. Let me tell you somethin', there's lots of flavors out there. There's Rocky Road and Cookie Dough and Bing Cherry Vanilla. They got kinds with fudge swirls and nougat." In the last few weeks, the two writers have heard these lines of theirs read by some 50 Joeys, but they have yet to hear them exactly the right way. "It is very specific," explains Mr. Crane. "You are trying to find someone who somehow connects comedically with our material, who gets our jokes." Casting, notoriously nerve-racking for actors, is hardly less stressful for television writers and producers like Mr. Crane and Ms. Kauffman. The pair have spent almost six months developing a set of sitcom characters -- a circle of friends in their 20's living in Manhattan -- and writing dialogue for them. Against great odds, they have persuaded a network, NBC, to pay to shoot a pilot episode of the sitcom, titled "Friends Like Us." The next critical step, from pilot to series, will depend largely on how well "Friends Like Us" is cast. 'It's Everything' "In television, casting is almost everything," said Leslie Moonves, the president of Warner Brothers Television, which is producing the sitcom. "It may be more important than the script, because television is such a people medium. Very rarely will a good script get by with bad casting." Warren Littlefield, the president of NBC Entertainment, went one step further. Casting, he said, is not almost everything; "it is everything." The laborious casting process began the first week in March, even before Mr. Crane and Ms. Kauffman had finished writing the pilot. Eight-line descriptions of the regular characters, the "breakdowns," went out to agents in Los Angeles, New York and Chicago. The agents then sifted through their clients and submitted photos and resumes of those who they thought, or at least hoped, might fit the descriptions. Some agents were more realistic than others about their clients' suitability. "You have A agents and B agents and C agents and Z agents," Warner Brothers' senior vice president for talent and casting, Barbara Miller, said with a shrug. For each of the six regular characters -- Joey and five friends -- the show's casting director, Ellie Kanner, received more than 1,000 glossy black-and-white photos. From these, she chose about 75 actors for each part and called them in to read a scene from the show. Those who seemed promising were called back again to read in front of Ms. Kauffman, Mr. Crane and their partner, Kevin Bright, a producer. And these were just the preliminaries. At the end of the month, the actors who had made it through the first set of cuts -- three or four for each part -- were called back yet again to read in front of a group of Warner Brothers executives that included Mr. Moonves and Ms. Miller. They agreed to allow a reporter to sit in on this session on the condition that the actors not be identified. Formidable Portraits The session took place in Ms. Miller's office, which is hung rather intimidatingly with portraits of Garbo and Bette Davis. Before the actors arrived, the Warners executives and the show's producers arranged themselves in a semi-circle facing a director's chair stitched with the logo from "Full House." Everyone received a list of the actors who would be auditioning and the agencies representing them. Appended to it was another list of actors who had been called but were not interested in auditioning for the show, either because they had other television deals or were not doing television or, in a few cases, because they were pregnant. When the first actor was ushered in to read for the part of Chandler, "a droll, dry guy in his 20's," no introductions were made. Clutching his script in his hand, he arranged his tall frame in the director's chair, ran his fingers through his hair and started to speak. "I'm back in high school," he said, "in the middle of the junior-senior lobby. And I realize I am totally naked." "I've had that dream," said Ms. Kanner, who was playing all of the other roles in the scene. "Then I look down and I realize there's a phone . . . there." "Instead of . . . ?" "Yup." After about two minutes, he was done. Everyone in the room nodded approval. "Good," Ms. Kauffman said. "Very good." Without any formal goodbyes, he left, and the next actor was ushered in to recite exactly the same lines. Dressed for the Part Most of the actors came dressed for the occasion. The women who were auditioning for the part of Phoebe, a "New Age waif," wore bell bottoms and clunky shoes and nose rings. The men trying out for Joey wore shirts that showed lots of chest. 1 2 Next Page > Inside NYTimes.com Health » Too Hot to Handle Arts » The Harmony of Liberty Opinion » Should Beach Privatization Be Allowed? Room for Debate asks whether shorefront homeowners should have to open their land to all comers. Sports » A Woman’s Leadership May Steady Murray Opinion » Menagerie: Streaming Eagles U.S. » Curlers’ Aim: Sweep to a Win Over the Heat Television » The Cold War Brews Anew in Prime Time Book Review » Command Performance Opinion » Op-Ed: Fooling Mexican Fans World » Reading, Writing and Allegations Opinion » Op-Ed: Elite, Separate, Unequal New York City’s top public schools must become more diverse. Business » Vice Has Media Giants Salivating © 2016 The New York Times Company Site Map Privacy Your Ad Choices Advertise Terms of Sale Terms of Service Work With Us RSS Help Contact Us Site Feedback