'Friends' Was Originally Called 'Six of One' - ABC News58 captures 06 Apr 2012 - 25 Jun 2021 May AUG Jan 08 2015 2016 2017 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20160808030158/http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/entertainment/2012/04/friends-was-originally-called-six-of-one Sections Sections Top Stories Video Election U.S. World Entertainment Health Tech Lifestyle Money Investigative Sports Good News Weather Photos Shows Shows Good Morning America World News Tonight Nightline 20/20 This Week Live Live Live Look at Olympic Park in Rio de Janeiro During the Summer Olympics Radar: Heavy Rain and Thunderstorms Across the Southeast Live Look at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro During the Summer Olympics Live Look at California Academy of Science's Shark Cam Now on ABC News Local Local New York City Los Angeles Chicago Philadelphia San Francisco - Oakland - San Jose Houston Durham - Raleigh - Fayetteville Fresno More abc.com espn.com fivethirtyeight.com disney.com theundefeated.com Privacy Policy Your CA Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use Contact Us Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2016 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Search Menu ABC News Log In Election U.S. World Entertainment Health Tech … … Health Tech Lifestyle Money Investigative Sports Good News Topics Weather Photos More ABCNews Cities Cities New York City New York City Los Angeles Los Angeles Chicago Chicago Philadelphia Philadelphia San Francisco - Oakland - San Jose San Francisco - Oakland - San Jose Houston Houston Durham - Raleigh - Fayetteville Durham - Raleigh - Fayetteville Fresno Fresno Partner Sites Partner Sites abc.com abc.com espn.com espn.com fivethirtyeight.com fivethirtyeight.com disney.com disney.com theundefeated.com theundefeated.com Privacy PolicyPrivacy Policy Your CA Privacy RightsYour CA Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy PolicyChildren's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based AdsInterest-Based Ads Terms of UseTerms of Use Contact UsContact Us Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2016 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Shows Good Morning America Good Morning America World News Tonight World News Tonight Nightline Nightline 20/20 20/20 This Week This Week Live Video Home> Entertainment 'Friends' Was Originally Called 'Six of One' April 5, 2012 By ABC NEWS via GOOD MORNING AMERICA Credit: NBC/Getty Images. "Friends" ran on NBC for ten years, but it had a much different title as a series pilot. In the May issue of Vanity Fair, former NBC executive Karey Burke revealed the original name of the show was "Six of One." In an article titled "The Oral History of Friends" fans also learn that Courteney Cox was originally offered the Jennifer Aniston role of Rachel. Nancy McKeon, the star of NBC's "The Facts of Life," was a top contender to play Monica, the role Cox eventually filled. Series co-creator Marta Kaufman said, "We originally offered Rachel to Courteney Cox, but she said she wanted to do Monica, not Rachel." Fellow co-creator David Crane said they originally had a different vision for Monica: "When we originally wrote the role, we had Janeane Garofalo's voice in our head. Darker and edgier and snarkier, and Courteney brought a whole bunch of other colors to it. We decided that, week after week, that would be a lovelier place to go to." Recalling the casting process, Kaufman said, "We saw a countless number of actors … One of the first actors on our list was Matthew Perry to play Chandler, but he was doing a show called "LAX 2194? [a Fox pilot about baggage handlers in the year 2194], so he wasn't available. We brought other people in." Crane added, "We brought everybody in. We were so sure that Chandler would be the easiest part to cast. It's got the most joke jokes. It's sarcastic and kind of quippy, but no one could do it. No one." The pair revealed that actor Craig Bierko eventually passed, but they later learned that he had been coached by Perry. Eventually Perry was released from his Fox pilot and free to join "Friends." Related Topics: Courteney Cox, Matthew Perry, Jennifer Aniston Join the Discussion Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus Hot Right Now 1 Clinton Opens 23-Point Lead Among Women as Trump Struggles 2 Dash Cam Shows Ohio State Trooper Hit and Tossed in the Air... 3 10-Year-Old Boy Dies on Kansas Water Park Ride 4 Dad Turns 1-Year-Old Son Into Adorable Olympian 5 Donald Trump Questions Clinton's Mental State You Might Also Like... Photo Galleries View: Rio Olympics 2016: Best Photos From the Opening Ceremony Sports View: Rio Olympics 2016: Best Photos From Day 1 Sports View: Rio Olympics 2016: Best Photos from Day 2 Sports View: Child Refugees of War-Torn South Sudan International View: Severe Overcrowding in Manila City Jail International See It, Share It David Zalubowski/AP Photo Republican National Convention Announces Partial Speakers List Rick Wilking/Reuters GOP Convention Fight Brewing as Delegates Mull Going Rogue AFP/Getty Images Jihadists' Computers '80 Percent' Full of Porn, Ex-Official Says Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images Tim Scott Gives Candid, Emotional Floor Speech on Race Kristie Reeves-Cavaliero 'Forgotten Baby Syndrome': A Parent’s Nightmare of Hot Car Death Joe Raedle/Getty Images Most Drivers Exhibit Aggressive Behavior, New Study Concludes Photoshot Prince Harry Takes HIV Test Live on Facebook Yahoo!-ABC News Network Privacy Policy Your CA Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use Contact Us © 2016 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved.