Wikipedia:Good articles - WikipediaWikipedia:Good articles From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Type of Wikipedia article Main Criteria Instructions Nominations Discussion Reassessment Report "WP:GA" redirects here. For the country of Georgia WikiProject, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Georgia (country). For the U.S. state of Georgia WikiProject, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Georgia (U.S. state). Good articles in Wikipedia A good article (GA) is an article that meets a core set of editorial standards, the good article criteria, passing through the good article nomination process successfully. They are well written, contain factually accurate and verifiable information, are broad in coverage, neutral in point of view, stable, and illustrated, where possible, by relevant images with suitable copyright licenses. Good articles do not have to be as comprehensive as featured articles (FA), but they should not omit any major facets of the topic: a comparison of the criteria for good and featured articles describes further differences. Currently, out of the 6,464,788 articles on Wikipedia, 36,106 are categorized as good articles (about 1 in 180), most of which are listed below. An additional 6,067 are listed as featured articles (about 1 in 1,070) and 3,927 as featured lists (about 1 in 1,650). Because articles are only included in one category, a good article that has been promoted to featured status is removed from the good articles category. Adding good and featured articles and lists together gives a total of 46,100 articles (about 1 in 141). A small plus sign inside a circle () in the top-right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is good. The process for designating an article as a good article is intentionally straightforward. Any editor, preferably one who creates or contributes to an article, who believes that the article meets the good article criteria, may nominate the article for an impartial reviewer to assess. Another editor may review the article after selecting it from a queue of good article nominations then evaluating it against the good article criteria. If it is accepted by the reviewer, the nominated article is added to the list of good articles below. Anyone may nominate or review an article by following the instructions. Similarly, anyone who believes that an article no longer meets the good article criteria may propose to delist it by following the instructions for reassessment. More good content is available at Wikipedia:Good topics. Shortcuts WP:GA WP:GOOD Good article tools: Good articles Good article nominations Good article reassessment Good article instructions Good article criteria Good article report Good article statistics Good article mismatches Delisted good articles Wikipedians by good article nominations Project page GAN Backlog Drives Related pages Good topics Featured articles Former featured articles Vital articles Did you know Recently listed good articles: CSS Scorpion — HMS Topaze (1903) — Medusa (Six Flags Great Adventure) — "Summer in the City" (song) — History of Braathens SAFE (1946–1993) — Blahyi, Joshua Milton — CSS Pamlico — Hancock, Thomas — KMEX-DT — de Neville, Alan — Repatriation tax avoidance — Gaius Marius — Assassin's Creed Odyssey — Soviet frigate Rezvyy — Afrolychas braueri Random Good Article of the Day: Battle of Camperdown Read a random good article View the entire list of all good articles List of good articles, arranged by topic Agriculture, food, and drink Agriculture, food, and drink Art and architecture Art Architecture Engineering and technology Computing and engineering Transport Geography and places Geography Places History World history Royalty, nobility, and heraldry Language and literature Language and literature Mathematics Mathematics and mathematicians Media and drama Film Television Media and drama Music Albums Classical compositions Songs Other music articles Natural sciences Biology and medicine Chemistry and materials science Earth science Physics and astronomy Philosophy and religion Philosophy Religion Social sciences and society Culture, sociology, and psychology Education Economics and business Law Magazines and print journalism Politics and government Sports and recreation Football Baseball Basketball Cricket Hockey Motorsport Pro wrestling Recreation Multi-sport event Other sports Video games Video games Warfare Armies and military units Battles, exercises, and conflicts Military aircraft Military decorations and memorials Military people Warships and naval units Weapons, equipment, and buildings Click any of the topics above for a list of good articles on that topic. A list of articles needing cleanup associated with this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Good_articles&oldid=956946482" Categories: WikiProject Good articles Lists of good articles Hidden categories: Project pages with short description Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Meta-Wiki Wikiquote Languages Alemannisch العربية অসমীয়া Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bislama Български Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Cebuano Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ಕನ್ನಡ Къарачай-малкъар कॉशुर / کٲشُر Қазақша Kurdî Ladino Лакку Latviešu Лезги Lietuvių Ligure Magyar Македонски मराठी مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ မြန်မာဘာသာ Nāhuatl नेपाली 日本語 Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Occitan Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Polski Português Română Русский Саха тыла Shqip සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska Tagalog Татарча/tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 文言 Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 16 May 2020, at 05:12 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement