USATODAY.com45 captures 05 Dec 2005 - 30 Aug 2021 Nov JAN Feb 13 2009 2012 2013 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wide Crawl started January 2012 Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from January 2012 using HQ software. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20120113234559/http://www.usatoday.com/community/chat_03/2003-09-18-bianco.htm Home News Travel Money Sports Life Tech Weather Talk Today Talk home Chat FAQ Message Boards Books Travel Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Football 01/21/2005 - Updated 07:38 PM ET Robert Bianco, USA TODAY The Emmy Awards: Robert Bianco Thursday, September 18, 3 p.m. ET The funeral home drama Six Feet Under has received a leading 16 Emmy nominations, followed by three-time best drama winner The West Wing with 15. The Sopranos, back in contention after missing out on last year's awards because it didn't air during the eligibility period, received 13 nominations, along with the comedies Everybody Loves Raymond and Sex and the City. So what do you predict for the 55th annual Emmy Awards? Chat with USA TODAY's Robert Bianco about the upcoming show. Missed the chat? Read the transcript below: Los Angeles, CA: Is there anything that can make the Emmys somewhat exciting and suspenseful? It's the same group of shows nominated and winning, year in and year out. Yawn. At least with the other awards, you always (or mostly) have a new crop each year. Robert Bianco: That's always going to be a problem. I know there are some people who want to ban returning shows and actors from the competition, but that has never seemed fair or wise to me. Why shouldn't James Gandolfini be nominated again for "The Sopranos" - the show may be old, but the episodes and his work were all new, and his work was among the year's best. And how much would the Emmys really mean if they ended up being a competition between new series and old series that haven't managed to win anything yet? Troy, MI: Well this is a pleasant surprise...a chat with you on a Thursday! I'd like to talk about the supporting actress roles --how good do youthink Lena Olin & Cynthia Nixon's chances of winning in their respective category. Also, would you consider a win by Jennifer Garner(I know...very far fetched) a major upset or a major delight? Robert Bianco: I think Olin has a better shot than Nixon (she just hasn't seemed to make much impact), but both have to be considered longshots. As for Garner, I love her, and I think she should have won last year. But this year, I really do think Edie Falco's performance in the "Soprano's" season finale was the best acting job of the year. As much as I like Garner, I couldn't be delighted to see Falco lose. Bloomington, Il: Hi Robert, Will Debra Messing finally end her streak as the only principal cast member of "Will and Grace" not to win an Emmy? I honestly think she's just as good as any of the other women nominated. Will William H Macy's showy performance in "Door to Door" beat out the subtlely spectacular jobs of Tom Wilkinson and Paul Newman? And finally, as much as I admire Allison Janney, isn't it absurd that she's in the starring category for what is actually a supporting role? Why does this happen? Thanks for putting up with all my questions. Robert Bianco: Let's take them quickly. Messing could win, of course, but I don't think she will - in part because she and her costar both submitted the big baby episode that was one of the season's worst. As for Macy, yep, my guess is he'll win. And it is absurd to consider Allison Janney a lead actress. It happens because Emmy allows actors to decide their categories for themselves. Bronx, NY: Does anyone have a chance of beating Edie Falco from the Sopranos for her season finale performance?? Robert Bianco: Anything is always possible with the Emmys - mainly because the voters so frequently make absurd choices. But a Falco loss would be a huge upset, ranking up there with the Academy's snub of "Lonesome Dove." dallas, tx: Why do Scrubs & Gilmore Girls continue to be snubbed?? I used to think that if GG was on NBC, it would be an Emmy and audience fave, but Scrubs suffers the same snub fate even with the peacock. Also...I know Tony S. is the fave to win, but, Matt LeBlanc/Joey Trib has been my favorite since the very first Friends episode...do you think he has any shot? The "air quote" bit alone deserves a trophy. By the way, I love your column and reviews...you get it right every time. Robert Bianco: "Every time" is probably a stretch, but thank you. There are shows the Academy just doesn't ever acknowledge - "Newhart" and "Designing Women," for example, never got the Emmy recognition they deserved. Some shows, like "Scrubs" and "Gilmore Girls," just fly under their radar. As for Matt LeBlanc - yeah, he has a shot, mostly because the voters often play catch up with the rewards. LeBlanc should have won last year, so voters may decide to make up for snubbing him by giving it to him this year. It's happened before. Oh - the "air quotes." How funny was that? Arlington, Virginia: Robert, Will there ever be a change to the system on Emmy voting so that more "worthy" programs like Buffy, Monk, Scrubs, Boomtown, & American Dreams start getting more nominations for their shows and actors over tired noms like The West Wing, Law & Order, Friends, and Will & Grace? Robert Bianco: You never want to say never, but I don't see any hint from the Academy that it realizes a change is needed. I think the Emmys need to institute a committee similar to the one established by the Grammys that would oversee the nominations - and have the power to make substitutions. But I don't see that happening anytime soon. Athens, Georgia: Robert, Can you explain how the Emmys could 'forget' to nominate Tony Shalhoub's wonderful show and co-stars like Ted Levine and Bitty Schram, for "Monk"? Robert Bianco: Be grateful they remembered to nominate Shalhoub. It's not easy for a USA series to get noticed. Austin, Texas: How could Neal McDonough of "Boomtown" or John C. McGinley of "Scrubs" be ignored? Robert Bianco: If I had to pick just one omission to correct, it would be the snub of Neal McDonough. Really, it's outrageous. As for how they can do that - they do that because they don't watch television. If you're lucky, they watch tapes. Otherwise, they base their votes on what ads they've read, or what network or studio they want to support. Truly, it's the worst system of any of the major awards, which is why the Emmys are also the least well regarded. Tampa, Florida: Robert, help! How do I get over my depression of Buffy being ignored for the final time and watch this Emmy show that only bases votes on politics? Also, do you agree with me that Buffy was a far superior show to Alias, though Alias gets all the hype because it's ABC and doesn't have vampires and demons? Robert Bianco: Overall, yes, I think "Buffy" was the better show, but I also think "Alias" lives up to its hype. As for getting over your depression - unless you had money or your continued health riding on the outcome of the Emmys, they're not worth getting depressed about. And as ridiculous as the nominations may have been, some of the winners will still have earned the awards. Tuscaloosa, Alabama: PLease tell us that Tony Shalhoub, one this years only nice Emmy surprises with the 100's of over done nominations for shows like West Wing, Friends, and Six Feet under, has a chance! Robert Bianco: Yes. In fact, I think he'll win. Then again, I thought McGovern had a chance against Nixon, so you never want to go by me. Middletown, NY: Hey Robert, I hope this year some actors get their due and not give the awards to the same actors year after year. But sadly, I think this will never happen on a major scale - they can't even nominate the actors that should be nominated. No more ranting - who do you like for Best actor drama and best actress drama? Thanks a bunch. Robert Bianco: Best actress is clear, Edie Falco. For best actor, I'd be torn between Martin Sheen and Kiefer Sutherland, but I think the Emmy will go to James Gandolfini. And no real complaint if it does - he's a great actor. PGH, PA: Since the Emmys most certainly do NOT reflect the best television has to offer, can you think of any reason a disheartened viewer should watch (unlike the Oscars, outrageous outfits don't count...) Robert Bianco: OK, more reasons. There will be some outrageous outfits. At least one of the 65 hosts is bound to be funny (my money's on Ellen DeGeneres). Some of the winners will be deserving - and some will be infuriating, which can also be fun. And, on a more serious note, there will be a tribute to John Ritter that is almost certain to be touching, because he was very popular with his fellow actors. Dallas TX: Hi Robert. I know a lot of people, yourself included I think, want Matt LeBlanc to win an Emmy. I don't get it. He is my next to least favorite "Friends" character. I don't hold much hope for his spinoff series since he won't have someone like "Chandler" (Matthew Perry) to play off of. What do you think? Robert Bianco: First up, I also think it's a showbiz sin that Perry hasn't won an Emmy - maybe next year, they can fix that. As for the spinoff, the odds are probably against it, but why worry about that now? The season hasn't even started - let's enjoy the last year of "Friends" before we start placing bets on the first year of "Joey." Indianapolis, Indiana: "Sex" had such a down season last year and a short one at that. I hope the Academy rewards the show next year for its great season this year. What do you think? Robert Bianco: I think the Academy has no idea what season of "Sex" they're voting for - in fact, I'm sure of it. Lithia, FL: If there were an Emmy for best ensemble, drama, who would you pick? Also, anything in the works from the creators of Once and Again and My So-Called Life? Robert Bianco: "Boomtown," maybe. And yes, Marshall Herskovitz and Ed Zwick, the men behind "Once and Again," are supposedly planning another series, though there's no word on what or when. Can't come soon enough for me. Wilton, Iowa: Much like Jerry Seinfeld, Ray Romano lacks the acting finesse of his supporting cast. To what do you attribute his success and ongoing recognition at the Emmys? Robert Bianco: He's a success because millions of Americans like him and think he's funny. Not me, and apparently not you, but millions nonetheless. He won the Emmy for his success, not for his acting talent, which is minimal. Espanola, NM: Robert, do you think "The Amazing Race" needs to win the Emmy in order to come back for a TAR5? Robert Bianco: No, but it certainly couldn't hurt. By the way, CBS has put out feelers for a fifth race. That doesn't mean there will be one, but it's at least a step in the right direction. henderson, nv: Predictions: Michael Chiklis "The Shield", Edie Falco "The Sopranos", Joe Pantoliano "The Sopranos", "24" for best drama, and an entire sweep for "Everybody Loves Raymond" for the acting and series awards (with Brad Garrett in the supporting category). However, I could see the "Raymond" juggernaut upset by Larry David and "Curb Your Enthusiasm." These are my predictions and not necessarily who I think should win. I am torn between Chiklis and Kiefer Sutherland and James Gandofini. Your thoughts? Also, when does Season 3 of "24" start? I just watched the first two on DVD and I am hopelessly hooked. Thanks, Paul. Robert Bianco: You could be right - though I think the Chiklis pick is a longshot, at best. Season 3 of "24" doesn't start until Oct. 28 - Fox has to get past the baseball playoffs first. Can't wait to see it myself. London England: Do you think the Emmy nominations for Acting are fair this year. is thee anyone missed off who deserves to be there and anyone on the list who certainly doesn't? Robert Bianco: I wouldn't say they were unfair. Let's go with misguided. In addition to McDonough, I would have nominated Donnie Wahlberg from "Boomtown" and Anthony LaPaglia from "Without a Trace." And the Academy snubbed "The Wire" all together, which is really hard to believe. Who would I drop? A lot of the people from "Six Feet Under" and "The Sopranos." London England: I am a big fan of Alias but am under no illusion that it will win any of the main Emmys. Like others I predict a clean sweep for HBO. Do you feel the same? Robert Bianco: It's possible, but no, I don't think it will happen. I think "Raymond" will edge "Curb" in the comedy category. And while "Sopranos" will probably win, you never want to count out "West Wing," which has yet to lose. Malibu, CA: Robert - Courtney Cox Arquette is the only Friends cast member to never be nominated for an Emmy. In your opinion, is this for a reason, or do you feel there were seasons in the past where she was worthy of a nomination. Also, do you think this "all for one and one for all" attitude the cast has taken to enter themselves in the same acting category has hurt their chances in the past, especially for the men? Robert Bianco: Yes, I think that's hurt them, and I think it's the main reason Cox hasn't won. The year that was built around her eventual marriage to Chandler, Cox and Perry should have been in the lead categories, and the other actors should have been in the supporting categories. Had they done that, they might have swept the night. South Pasadena, CA: Robert - I heard that Christina Applegate won for best guest actress in a comedy for her role as Rachel's sister on "Friends." I personally didn't think she was that good. Does this win for her surprise you. And didn't you think that Brad Pitt deserved to win best guest actor last year? I thought he was great in his guest shot. Robert Bianco: I thought Pitt was endearing, but I wouldn't have given him an Emmy for what was basically a sweet stunt. And yes, Applegate's win was something of a surprise, but not an unwelcome one. Oconomowoc, WI: I was thrilled that Christina Applegate won an Emmy for her guest role on Friends. How much career oomph can that create? Robert Bianco: The other side heard from. And not much. She's already well-known in Hollywood; an Emmy for a guest shot won't change anyone's mind one way or the other. Miami Fl: With HBO dominating the Emmys do you see commercial television getting even bolder with what it shows and says? Are we on the brink of breast on television? Robert Bianco: Probably, but I wouldn't blame HBO. We're just becoming a more open society - or a more vulgar one, depending on how you feel about the issue. Provo, UT: Robert, what did you think of the Guest Actor/Actress awards that were handed out last weekend? Who would you have picked? Robert Bianco: I was surprised Don Cheadle didn't win for "ER," but I didn't really have a problem either way with the winners. Riverside Illinois: I will be at the Emmys ceremony on Sunday. I am hoping that Sean Hayes of "Will and Grace" wins this year. I actually hope they all win from "Will and Grace". What do you think the odss of that happening are? Robert Bianco: Not impossible, particularly for Hayes and Megan Mullally. The stars, I think, have a tougher road, but it could happen. Kennewick WA: I absolutely love Curb your enthusiasm. I think it is brilliant, but a bit nasty, which isn't a bad thing... I hope it wins best comedy.How do you feel about it? What do you predict to win.. Thanks, have a great day, I really respect your opinion.... Robert Bianco: My guess is "Curb," which is enormously popular in Hollywood, will dominate among younger voters while "Raymond" wins among older voters. And since more voters are old, I'm guessing "Raymond" wins - though it pains me to say so. caroline,tx: Robert, could you name some people who feel Emmy has slighted over the last several years? thanks! Robert Bianco: Well, Matthew Perry springs to mind. As does Khandi Alexander, who should have won an Emmy for "The Corner," and wasn't even nominated. Boston: Robert, in the Lead Actor in a Comedy category, do you think the voters should give more credit to actors who play a character, such as Matt LeBlanc as Joey, as opposed to Larry David and Ray Romano, who are basically playing themselves? I think Ray won last year, but I just don't see him as an "actor." Or should they just rename the category? Robert Bianco: That's such a hard question. Take Jerry Seinfeld. He was a terrible actor from day one, and never got any better. But his comic sensibility drove one of the most popular sitcoms on TV. Maybe that deserves an Emmy. Tampa, FL: Robert, will the Emmy awards show clips from the episodes submitted by the actors/series? I've noticed that awards shows have stopped doing that (notably the Oscars), which is a shame. I love the clips and it is a nice way to see a glimpse of the work that I might have missed. Robert Bianco: I don't know. I'm sure they'll show some clips, but I don't know if the clips will come specifically from the episodes the actors and producers submitted. Atlanta: In predicting the top categories you dodged a tough one. Who should win Best Supporting Actress in a Drama - the sublime Lena Olin or the still fearless Tyne Daly? And would your opinion be different if the morons in the academy had gotten in right and also nominated Penny Johnson Jerald and CCH Pounder? Robert Bianco: I did dodge. I love Tyne Daly (not the show, but her performance), but I'd go with Lena Olin. I'd stick with her even over Jerald and Pounder, though it would be a tough call. Pittsburgh PA: Are the nominees actually judged on their performances in the episodes they submit, or for the entire season's worth of work? Robert Bianco: The episode. The voters are too lazy or busy to watch the entire season's worth of work. Chicago: How are the Emmys viewed inside the business? Is it considered an impressive achievement or does Hollywood think the system is as screwed up as critics and fans seem to? Robert Bianco: Let's be fair: It is an achievement, even with the system's many flaws. People who win have a right to be proud. As for how the Emmys are viewed among actors - the rank below the Oscars and Tonys, but way above the Golden Globes and SAG awards. And I tell you how you can tell: When an actor wins an Emmy, it always comes ahead of the Globe reference in his resume. And when he wins an Oscar, the Emmy moves down the list. Bel Air: Allison Janney had more screentime than Falco and Conroy this season... why pick on her? She IS the lead dramatic actress on her show...and 100 percent the most important actress on Network Television. She is in the right category. Robert Bianco: She's a wonderful actress - but there is no lead actress on "West Wing." There is one lead, Martin Sheen, and a large supporting cast. That's just the way it is. Comment from Robert Bianco: OK, now you'll all have to come back Monday for the regular chat, and we'll discuss what Emmy got right and wrong. Talk to you then. USATODAY.com partners: USA WEEKEND Sports Weekly Education Space.com Home Travel News Money Sports Life Tech Weather Resources: Mobile news Site map FAQ Contact us E-mail news Jobs with us Internships Terms of service Privacy policy/Your California Privacy Right Advertise Press Room Media Lounge Electronic print edition Reprints and Permissions Add USATODAY.com RSS feeds The Nation's Homepage Copyright 2008 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.