'Friends' challenge -- finding right words to say goodbye31 captures 23 Jan 2009 - 09 Dec 2021 Dec JAN Aug 23 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090123083513/http://www.sfgate.com:80/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2004/01/15/DDGPB49B2D1.DTL&type=printable Article:'Friends' challenge -- finding right words to say goodb:/c/a/2004/01/15/DDGPB49B2D1.DTL Article:'Friends' challenge -- finding right words to say goodb:/c/a/2004/01/15/DDGPB49B2D1.DTL Back to Article 'Friends' challenge -- finding right words to say goodbye Peter Hartlaub, Chronicle Staff Writer Thursday, January 15, 2004 (01-15) 04:00 PST Los Angeles -- Just think of the ratings possibilities. After adding more dramatic story lines in each of its 10 seasons, "Friends" could end with Joey rescuing Phoebe and Rachel from a bloody hostage situation that crosses over with "Third Watch" and "ER." Or maybe it was all some autistic kid's dream, like the finale of "St. Elsewhere." Or Ross can spell out "GOODBYE'' in stones in front of Central Park as Chandler helicopters away ... The creators of the NBC hit told critics on Tuesday that they have completed a draft of the hourlong finale -- to be broadcast May 6 -- that the cast read for the first time earlier this week. Whatever surprises the script contains, it's more likely to have a classy, lower-key "M*A*S*H" tone than any of the more sensational options. "We didn't want to do something high concept, or take the show out of the show,'' executive producer David Crane said, sitting next to the cast in Chandler and Monica's living room on the Warner Bros. set. Added co-creator Marta Kauffman: "We want them to be happy and OK and for it to be good to say goodbye to them.'' The pressure is intense for series architects Crane, Kauffman and Kevin Bright. "Friends" is one of the most successful comedies in television history, and a dull thud of an ending would stain a franchise that has done a good job of maintaining writing quality in its later years despite an overload of melodrama. (The network is promoting yet another "Unforgettable All-New Episode of 'Friends' " this week, although NBC seems to have stopped playing Enya music over the trailers.) Before crafting the last episode, Crane said the three spent time watching finales from other sitcoms, paying attention to what worked and what didn't. "The ones we really like are the ones that stayed true to what the series was,'' Kauffman said. " 'Mary Tyler Moore,' '' Crane added. "That's the gold standard." "MTM" ended with a tearful group hug in the newsroom, segueing to the cast leaving one by one until only Mary was left to turn out the lights and close the door. Whatever the creators end up with, the tears that the actors shed will probably be real. Remarkably, there were almost no reports of tension on the "Friends" set during its decadelong run, and the actors seem to sincerely like one another -- a rarity in Hollywood among the young and extremely rich. Faced with repeated questions about their state of mind with only a handful of episodes left to go, the "Friends" cast took turns besting each other with mixed metaphors to explain how traumatic the last few weeks are going to be. Jennifer Aniston was the clear winner. "We're like china,'' Aniston said. "We're like very delicate china right now. And we're speeding toward a brick wall.'' Crane and Kauffman said the most critical parts of the finale will be shot without an audience, with only enough crew to get the scenes in the can. Short of an elaborate kidnapping and torture of the executive producers, the end of "Friends" will probably be a secret that even the best gossip hacks and Internet rumor mills are unable to penetrate. Not that they won't try. A rumor that circulated Monday had the cast filming a reunion show for $2 million each. It was quashed on Tuesday by NBC officials ("There was no truth to that whatsoever, but I'm here to offer them $4 million dollars apiece,'' joked NBC Entertainment President Jeff Zucker), although most of the friends said they would be thrilled to drop in as guests on the Matt LeBlanc spin-off "Joey." After being told exactly nothing about the fates of Chandler, Joey, Ross, Monica, Rachel and Phoebe during the question-and-answer session, reporters were forced to scan the set for clues concerning the final episodes. (What were those teal and white clumps of balloons on the set for? A baby shower? A going-away party? Another freaking wedding?) Kauffman said the writers were stumped for a long time, at one point spending several days thinking about the final scene without being able to write a word. But all the principals were smiling on Tuesday, a day after their first script read-through. And they seemed confident that the show's fans will have the same reaction. "It's exactly what I had hoped,'' said David Schwimmer, who plays Ross. "We all end up with a sense of a new beginning and the audience has a sense that it's a new chapter in the lives of all these characters." E-mail Peter Hartlaub at phartlaub@sfchronicle.com. http://sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2004/01/15/DDGPB49B2D1.DTL This article appeared on page E - 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle San Francisco Chronicle Sections © 2004 Hearst Communications Inc. | Privacy Policy | Feedback | RSS Feeds | FAQ | Site Index | Contact