Guest appearance - WikipediaGuest appearance From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Participation of an outsider performer in an event or a movie "Featuring" and "Guest star" redirect here. For the astronomical term, see Guest star (astronomy). For other uses, see Feature (disambiguation). This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (April 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) In show business, a guest appearance is the participation of an outsider performer (such as a musician or actor) in an event such as a music record or concert, show, etc., when the performer does not belong to the regular band, cast, or other performing group. In music, such an outside performer is often referred to as a guest artist.[1] In performance art, the terms guest role or guest star are also common, the latter term specifically indicating the guest appearance of a celebrity. The latter is often also credited as special guest star or special musical guest star by some production companies. In pop music and hip-hop, such guests are often referred to as featured artists or featured guests. Such a performer may be annotated in credits or even in song titles by the abbreviation feat. or further abbreviation ft.; or by the word with or abbreviation w/. In a TV series, a guest star is an actor who appears in one or a few episodes (sometimes a story arc). In some cases a guest star may play an important recurring character and may appear many times in a series, despite not being a member of the main cast; they may ultimately be asked to join the main cast if their role continues. The specific credit and billing given to a given performer—"starring," "guest star," "special guest star," "also starring," etc.—is a matter negotiated between the production and the performer or their agent. In nonfiction radio and television shows, a guest star is a guest on the show who is a celebrity or other noteworthy interviewee or commentator. Contents 1 Classical performance arts 2 Contemporary music 3 Reasons for guest appearances 4 Drawbacks 5 See also 6 References Classical performance arts[edit] Guest appearances have been known in theatre, ballet, and classical music for centuries, with guests both from the home country and from abroad. The advent of air transport has made this practice much more practical and global.[2] In classical music, guest orchestra conductors are a common practice. Guest artists should not be confused with touring groups, troupes, orchestra, or even individual artists, although the distinction may be blurred. In the case of touring, their act is independent in itself, while the guest takes part in the act of the resident staff. The duration of involvement of a guest artist may vary, from separate short-term acts with fees per concert to fixed temporary contracts for several seasons. Contemporary music[edit] In the early days of the pop music industry the bands were relatively stable units, and while guests were not uncommon, they were seldom given credits on album covers. For example, Eric Clapton was not credited in print for his guitar performance in the release of "While My Guitar Gently Weeps" of the Beatles. Gradually guest appearances have become a fully credited staple of music industry. The custom of guest appearance has become especially prominent in rap music, and this influenced rock musicians as well.[3] To have a guest star on a record, a production coordinator must in many cases obtain permission from the record label of the guest and make sure that proper credits are delivered to the host record label. Often credits appear in the form "Artist name, courtesy of Record Label name."[4] Reasons for guest appearances[edit] A common reason for guest appearances is to draw attention to an act by including a contemporary celebrity. Vice versa, stars of other generations near the end of their career arcs may choose to perform.[3] In rap, mutual and multiple guest starring was recognized as a way to diversify the performance.[3] In theatre and ballet, guest appearances diversify actors' repertory and experience under different choreographers, and give more acting opportunities. Even for established stars prestigious overseas engagements increase their home status. Conversely, a guest star benefits the receiving troupe, bringing new inspiration and technique. Audience would welcome diversity, and theatrical business benefits as well: theatre connoisseurs will come to see the same piece with a new star.[2] Drawbacks[edit] Commercialization of guests policy may also have negative consequences. Local theatres may limit the growth opportunities for their performers in favor of guests. Sometimes rehearsal times are inadequate to fully integrate the home and guest styles. Touring increases physical load on an actor. It is also associated with multiple stress factors: from jet lags to close calls due to unanticipated travel delays.[3] With a television series, the appearance of a special guest star, or depending on an overabundance of guest star appearances to the frustration and demerit of the regular cast of the series, could mark the moment when a series "jumps the shark"; that is, a doomed attempt to reverse a decline in popularity.[5] See also[edit] Cameo appearance Guest character Guest host References[edit] ^ Chujoy, Anatole; Manchester, Phyllis Winifred (1967). "Guest Artist". The Dance Encyclopedia. Simon & Schuster. p. 434. ^ a b Laine, Barry (July 26, 1981). "The Ballet Star as Guest Artist". The New York Times. ^ a b c d Edwards, Mark (November 22, 2007). "Voices Find Gilt by Association". The Australian. Archived from the original on March 1, 2009. Retrieved January 7, 2008. ^ Borg, Bobby (2003). The Musician's Handbook: A Practical Guide to Understanding the Music Business. ISBN 0-8230-8357-8. ^ "Special Guest Star". Jump the Shark. Retrieved October 21, 2008. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Guest_appearance&oldid=1055778336" Categories: Performing arts Television terminology Film and video terminology Acting Musical terminology Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles that may contain original research from April 2018 All articles that may contain original research Use mdy dates from February 2014 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Eesti Español Euskara فارسی Français Frysk 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Português Русский Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Svenska தமிழ் Türkçe Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 17 November 2021, at 19:03 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement