Merry Christmas, Mr. Bean - WikipediaMerry Christmas, Mr. Bean From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Merry Christmas, Mr Bean) Jump to navigation Jump to search This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (July 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Episode of Mr. Bean "Merry Christmas, Mr. Bean" Mr. Bean episode Episode no. Episode 7 Directed by John Birkin Written by Robin Driscoll Richard Curtis Rowan Atkinson Produced by Sue Vertue Original air date 29 December 1992 (1992-December-29) Running time 26:27 Guest appearance Owen Brenman Matilda Ziegler John Warner Jonathan Stratt C. J. Allen Episode chronology ← Previous "Mr. Bean Rides Again" Next → "Mr. Bean in Room 426" List of episodes "Merry Christmas, Mr. Bean" is the seventh episode of the British television series Mr. Bean, produced by Tiger Television for Thames Television.[1][2] It was first broadcast as a Christmas special on ITV on Tuesday 29 December 1992[3] as part of ITV's Christmas schedule and was watched by 18.48 million viewers during its original transmission. This was the last episode to be co-written by Richard Curtis and the last to be broadcast by Thames Television on behalf of the ITV network. It also marks the last appearance of Mr. Bean's girlfriend, Irma Gobb (Matilda Ziegler) in the original television series until reappearing on Mr. Bean: The Animated Series eleven years later. Contents 1 Plot 1.1 Act 1: Christmas Shopping 1.2 Act 2: Christmas Eve 1.3 Act 3: Christmas Day 2 Cast 3 Production 4 Deleted scene 5 Censorship 6 References 7 External links Plot[edit] Act 1: Christmas Shopping[edit] Mr. Bean ventures into town on Christmas Eve and visits Harrods to buy Christmas decorations. After parking directly in front of the store and harassing a man dressed as Santa Claus by pulling his false beard[4], Bean goes inside and tests out two different baubles, going with the one that bounces off the ground after the other one simply smashes. He then tests some Christmas lights on a socket being used for the store's exterior lights, plunging the entire outside of the store into darkness in the process. As the cashier sorts out his purchases, Bean notices a small Nativity display and uses it to act out a creative yet inaccurate scene with several other toys, including a Dalek, a Tyrannosaurus rex, two army tanks and a helicopter. His fun is soon disrupted by the store manager, who brings a toy policeman into the scene to halt the proceedings. The manager hands him his purchases and Bean leaves the shop. Bean later heads to a local Christmas market, where he spots another man dressed as Santa Claus. Again, he pulls the man's beard, only to find that it is real, prompting Bean to make a quick exit while the man recovers. He meets up with his girlfriend, Irma Gobb, and is dragged to the window of a jewellery shop, whereupon she points to a ring that she wants him to buy for her. However, Bean sees a picture of a couple next to the ring and heads into the shop to buy it, thinking this is what she is pointing to. Afterwards, Bean volunteers to help the conductor of a Salvation Army brass band collect money; in doing so, he catches a young pickpocket and forces him to hand over all the items he has stolen. While the conductor goes to his car to try on some of the jewellery that the pickpocket stole, Bean takes over in conducting the band. He has them perform two renditions of "God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen," one to test out the conducting skills, and the other with a jazz feel, earning a big round of applause from the crowd. After the conductor returns, Bean attempts to buy a Christmas tree from a stand, only to get to the stand just as the last two trees are bought. He cuts down the market's tree, attaches it to the roof of his Mini and drives home with it, while everybody at the market remains oblivious. Act 2: Christmas Eve[edit] Back at his flat, Bean cuts the top off of the stolen Christmas tree and decorates it with his lights and bauble. He writes a few Christmas cards (all of the same design) and seals them in envelopes, then steps outside and posts them to himself. Bean searches a cupboard for some Christmas crackers, and decides to take the fuses out of the other crackers and stuff them all into one, making a "super cracker." Later, Bean hangs up three stockings in his room: one for Teddy, one for himself, and one for a mouse living in a hole. Enjoying a box of chocolates and a glass of sherry, Bean decides to watch some television, but nothing that's on the TV (war films and a horror film) interests him. As he turns his television off, he finds a group of young carol singers performing "Away in a Manger" at his door. Deciding to watch them perform from his seat as if he was watching TV, Bean soon grows tired and rudely shuts the door on them before heading for bed. Act 3: Christmas Day[edit] The following morning, Bean wakes up in excitement and proceeds to check the stockings. Teddy's contains a tin that holds a pair of drawing pin eyes, his is a sock that has a matching sock stuffed inside, and the mouse's contains a piece of cheese (which Bean ironically sets on a mousetrap). That evening, Bean starts to prepare a large turkey for dinner, but while stuffing it, his watch gets lost inside. He takes out a flashlight to look for it, then sticks his head inside the turkey to try and find it, but the turkey gets stuck on his head just as Irma arrives. After Bean tries and fails to cover up his predicament from Irma, she helps him to remove the turkey by tying it to a coal scuttle and throwing the scuttle out the window. The turkey is lost, but Bean fortunately gets his watch back. With the turkey gone, Bean and Irma instead eat cranberry sauce sandwiches and carrot slices for dinner. Irma shows Bean his present and tries to get a kiss from him, only for him to distract her and rudely snatch it away. He unwraps his present and is pleased to find that it is a model ship kit. Bean then hands Irma her present, but her excitement turns to disappointment when she finds that he bought her the picture in the display window. Bean realizes that he "forgot the main bit" and produces a ring box from his pocket, much to Irma's surprise. When she opens the box, however, she discovers that it actually contains a screw-in hook meant for hanging the picture. A furious Irma storms out of the flat, leaving Bean puzzled and hurt. He then remembers his "super cracker" and decides to pull it himself. As he does so, we see a view of his window from the street, along with a loud bang and a sudden flash through the curtains. Cast[edit] Rowan Atkinson – Mr. Bean Matilda Ziegler – Irma Gobb C. J. Allen - Santa outside Harrods Owen Brenman – Harrods clerk John Warner - Band conductor Lee Barrett - Pickpocket Jonathan Stratt Production[edit] Most of the location scenes - set in a market - were shot on videotape in Kingston. Studio sequences were recorded before a live audience at Thames Television's Teddington Studios. Following its broadcast on American cable television network HBO, this episode won the 1995 CableACE award for best comedy special.[5][6] A scene for this episode was cut out for broadcast but retained in the retail version[clarify]. In the scene, Bean participates in a "guess the weight" competition, with the large turkey from the episode, being the prize, and cheats to win it by using a hidden set of scales below the counter for the competition, alongside a calculator, whereupon the turkey is thrown into the boot of his Mini once he wins it. For unknown reasons, the A&E DVD release (distributed in the US by New Video) does not contain this scene. A number of elements were used as inspiration for other programs. The 'lights on a well known building being accidentally switched off' gag is used by comedian Peter Kay at the end of his Live at the Top of the Tower DVD, while the turkey scene was inspired for a scene in an episode of Friends titled "The One with All the Thanksgivings", and later led to an adaptation for the film Bean, though it was cut out of the international release (outside North America) and reserved for a special feature section entitled "Bean Scenes Unseen".[7] Another turkey gag was used in the Mr. Bean: The Animated Series episode "Dinner for Two". During the nativity scene, Bean introduces a military marching band while humming "The British Grenadiers", which is used as the theme tune to Blackadder Goes Forth, another sitcom Rowan Atkinson starred in. Deleted scene[edit] The retail version[clarify] of this episode includes an extra scene where Bean attempts to win the turkey he eventually ended up wearing on his head. The contest being to guess the turkey's weight, he sneaks a pair of scales to the counter; having already weighed himself, he subtracts his weight from the combined weight using a Casio calculator. The person in charge of the contest is shocked when Bean guesses the exact weight (to three decimal places) and wins it. Some versions, like the A&E DVD release (distributed in the US by New Video) and the 2010 “Remastered” releases are missing this scene. Censorship[edit] The scene where Irma Gobb helps Mr. Bean to get the turkey off was also edited out when broadcast on Nickelodeon UK. References[edit] ^ "Timeline". mrbean.co.uk. Archived from the original on 15 January 2013. Retrieved 27 February 2013. ^ Chris Perry (3 February 2016). The Kaleidoscope British Christmas Television Guide 1937-2013. pp. 386–. ISBN 978-1-900203-60-9. ^ "Timeline". mrbean.co.uk. Archived from the original on 22 September 2013. Retrieved 4 January 2014. ^ Stephen Greenfield (22 November 2008). We Wish You a Retro Christmas. pp. 49–. ISBN 978-1-4092-4675-6. Merry Christmas Mr. Bean The bumbling but lovable creation of Rowan Atkinson first appeared in 1990. Merry Christmas Mr. Bean first aired on 29 December 1992. This festive episode starts with Mr. Bean visiting Harrods to purchase ... ^ "HBO Takes Bulk of Prizes at the CableACE Awards". Los Angeles Times. 16 January 1995. Retrieved 28 February 2013. ^ "Awards". tigeraspect. Archived from the original on 16 June 2011. Retrieved 28 February 2013. ^ "Bean Scenes Unseen". You Tube. Retrieved 24 January 2018. External links[edit] "Merry Christmas, Mr. Bean" at IMDb v t e Mr. Bean Title character Episodes "Mr. Bean" "The Return of Mr. Bean" "The Curse of Mr. Bean" "Mr. Bean Goes to Town" "The Trouble with Mr. Bean" "Mr. Bean Rides Again" "Merry Christmas, Mr. Bean" "Mr. Bean in Room 426" "Do-It-Yourself Mr. Bean" "Mind the Baby, Mr. Bean" "Back to School Mr. Bean" "Tee Off, Mr. Bean" "Goodnight Mr. Bean" "Hair by Mr. Bean of London" "The Best Bits of Mr. Bean" Other media Mr. Bean: The Animated Series Episodes Bean: The Ultimate Disaster Movie Mr. Bean's Holiday People Rowan Atkinson Robin Driscoll Peter Bennett-Jones Sue Vertue Related Tiger Aspect Productions "Picture of You" Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Merry_Christmas,_Mr._Bean&oldid=1075396614" Categories: Mr. Bean episodes 1992 British television episodes CableACE Award-winning episodes British Christmas television episodes Television shows written by Rowan Atkinson Television shows written by Richard Curtis Television shows written by Robin Driscoll Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attention from July 2021 All Wikipedia articles with plot summary needing attention Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description with no season number Pages using infobox television episode with unnecessary list markup All Wikipedia articles needing clarification Wikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2018 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Edit links This page was last edited on 5 March 2022, at 14:47 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement