USATODAY.com - Rachel stays, so 'Friends' are able to leave together47 captures 22 Jul 2004 - 15 Feb 2022 Sep NOV Sep 01 2007 2008 2010 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: 51_crawl this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20081101152402/http://www.usatoday.com:80/life/television/reviews/2004-05-06-friends-finale_x.htm Classifieds: | | | Home News Travel Money Sports Life Tech Weather Movies Movies home Box office report DVD releases Music Music home Top albums Top singles Listen Up Music reviews TV TV home TV listings Nielsen ratings Reality Check Critic's Corner 'Idol' Chatter Books Books home Top 150 books Columnists Columnists home Robert Bianco Peter Johnson Whitney Matheson Alison Maxwell Craig Wilson Gaming Gaming home Arcade Crosswords Sudoku More Life People Media Mix Pop Candy Photo archive Talk Today Marketplace Real estate Arcade Music Tickets Shopping International Business Index Newspaper Classifieds Posted 5/6/2004 11:09 PM Updated 5/7/2004 1:05 AM FRIENDS' END Stories and more Complete series recaps, reviews and guest spots Robert Bianco reviews The Last One And now the one where Friends say goodbye How big will the finale be? A salute to the most affable of sitcoms Readers write their own Friends finales Chat about the finale, May 7 at noon ET Friends 'til the End archive Cast interviews David Schwimmer Matt LeBlanc Matthew Perry Jennifer Aniston Lisa Kudrow Courteney Cox-Arquette Video Season 2: The prom video Season 3: Ross and Rachel take a break Season 4: The big apartment swap Season 5: Phoebe welcomes the triplets Season 6: Monica and Chandler get engaged Season 7: Monica and Chandler's wedding Season 8: Rachel in labor Season 9: Ross and Charlie are short-lived Season 10: Joey and Rachel... also short-lived Today's Top Life Stories • Will Howard K. Stern sue media for overdose implications? - 4:36 PM • Don Imus: 'I did a bad thing, but I'm a good person' - 4:28 PM • Critics demand Imus be fired for Rutgers remark - 4:26 PM • 'B.C.' cartoonist Johnny Hart dies at 76 - 11:49 AM • Couric says the job takes 'patience' - 10:57 PM • Add USATODAY.com RSS feeds What's this? Click here to shop! What are you shopping for? • Browse over 8 million products • Clothing & Jewelry • Computers & Electronics • Home & Garden • Kids & Family Rachel stays, so 'Friends' are able to leave together By Robert Bianco, USA TODAY Ross and Rachel, at last. She really is his lobster: Rachel has a change of heart and chooses Ross over Paris in The Last One. Warner Bros. With an entertaining, satisfying one-hour finale Thursday, Friends circled back to where it began, with Ross and Rachel united as a couple. For 10 years, fans of this blockbuster NBC sitcom have followed Ross and Rachel through the soap-comic-opera mechanics of a relationship that kept them in balance, never completely together or completely apart. Well, now they're together (and in New York, not Paris), which is what fans wanted. As Phoebe once told Ross, he's Rachel's "lobster." And lobsters mate for life, or at least until the next TV reunion movie. Written by the show's creators, Marta Kauffman and David Crane, the episode deftly mixed emotion and humor while showcasing each of the stars in turn: Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer. It may have been impossible for any one episode to live up to the hype and expectations built up around the Friends finale, but this hour probably came as close as fans could have reasonably hoped. Well, what there was of it. There were so many commercials, the show often seemed to be designed to provide a break between them. Though the union of Ross and Rachel was the main plot point, it was hardly the only one. Joey bought new versions of Chick and Duck. (The old ones, we discovered, were dead.) Gunther finally told Rachel he loved her. Oh, and Monica and Chandler got their adopted child, which turned out to be twins. ("We only ordered one!") How did it rank against other great finales? Overall, far better than most. If it wasn't quite as funny as the wrap-up of Newhart or the absolute perfection of The Mary Tyler Moore Show, it also wasn't a slap in the face like Seinfeld. Following an NBC pattern set by the departure of Seinfeld, the hour-long Friends finale was introduced by a one-hour clip show. But in contrast to this season's annoying Sexand the City clip show, Friends kept the interviews and the self-congratulation to a minimum and let the show's funniest moments speak for themselves. And they certainly did — from Phoebe reliving her childhood, to Chandler trying not to talk like Chandler, to Monica touring the erogenous zones, to Ross screaming "pivot," to Rachel crying because she can't read a sonogram, to Joey explaining a "moo point." ("It's like a cow's opinion. It doesn't matter.") Ultimately, the two-hour package did exactly what it was supposed to do. It wrapped up the story while reminding us why we liked the show and will miss it. Goodbye, good Friends. Newspaper Home Delivery - Subscribe Today USATODAY.com partners: USA WEEKEND Sports Weekly Education Space.com Home Travel News Money Sports Life Tech Weather Resources: Mobile news Site map FAQ Contact us E-mail news Jobs with us Internships Terms of service Privacy policy/Your California Privacy Right Advertise Press Room Media Lounge Electronic print edition Reprints and Permissions Add USATODAY.com RSS feeds The Nation's Homepage Copyright 2008 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.