Working title - WikipediaWorking title From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about preliminary titles of creative works. For the film production company, see Working Title Films. For the band, see The Working Title. "Production title" redirects here. Not to be confused with Production logo. A working title, sometimes called a production title or a tentative title, is the temporary title of a product or project used during its development, usually used in filmmaking, television production, video game development, or the creation of a novel or music album. Contents 1 Purpose 2 Title ruse 3 See also 4 References Purpose[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Working titles are used primarily for two reasons – the first being that an official title has not yet been decided upon, with the working title being used purely for identification purposes, and the second being a ruse to intentionally disguise the real nature of a project. Examples of the former include the film Die Hard with a Vengeance, which was filmed under the title Die Hard: New York, and the James Bond films, which are commonly produced under numerical titles such as Bond 22, until an official title is announced. A notable example is Disney's The Emperor's New Groove, whose working title is Kingdom of the Sun, with an alternate plotline. Examples of the latter include Jurassic World, produced under Ebb Tide, Return of the Jedi, which was produced under the title Blue Harvest, 2009's Star Trek, which was produced under the title Corporate Headquarters, the Batman films Batman Returns, Batman Forever, Batman Begins, The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises, which were produced under the titles Blinko, Dictel, The Intimidation Game, Rory's First Kiss, and Magnus Rex,[1] respectively and Tenet, under the title Merry-Go-Round. Rock Band Network, a platform for third-party downloadable content for the music video game Rock Band, was developed under the codename Rock Band: Nickelback.[2] In some cases a working title may ultimately be used as the official title, as in the case of the films Cloverfield, Project X (2012), High School Musical, and Snakes on a Plane (at the insistence of leading man Samuel L. Jackson, who joked that he took the role for the working title alone, after he learned the title was going to be changed to Pacific Air Flight 121 upon release), the television shows The Mindy Project and The Cleveland Show, and video games Quake II, Spore, Silent Hill: Origins and Epic Mickey. Projects in the Marvel Cinematic Universe have utilized working titles. Title ruse[edit] A title ruse is a practice by which a high-profile film or television series is given a fake working title to keep its production a secret, and to prevent price gouging by suppliers,[3] casual theft and undesirable attention.[citation needed] Purchase orders from vendors, outdoor signs, videocassettes and DVD labels will use the cover title of a film. Notable examples of ruse titles used to conceal details of a production include Blue Harvest (ruse title for Return of the Jedi), How the Solar System Was Won (ruse title for 2001: A Space Odyssey), Planet Ice (ruse title for Titanic), and Greenbrier (ruse title for El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie).[4][5] See also[edit] Pseudonym References[edit] ^ Nolan Fans article "The Dark Knight Rises As Magnus Rex" ^ Radosh, Daniel (August 11, 2009). "While My Guitar Gently Beeps" – via NYTimes.com. ^ Bloom, Jim, Production Supervisor; Ch. 9, bonus material disc of the 2004 Star Wars Trilogy DVD box set. ^ Lambie, Ryan (2011-06-03). "The working titles of Hollywood blockbuster movies". Den of Geek. Retrieved 13 June 2021. ^ Goldberg, Lesley (November 6, 2018). "'Breaking Bad' Movie From Creator Vince Gilligan in the Works". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 19, 2019. Retrieved July 27, 2021. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Working_title&oldid=1069946029" Categories: Film production Editing Naming Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from November 2018 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2010 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Български Español فارسی Frysk 한국어 Italiano Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Português Suomi Svenska Türkçe 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 4 February 2022, at 22:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement