Advertising agency - WikipediaAdvertising agency From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Business creating advertisements and/or placing them in third-party media publications This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Advertising agency" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (June 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) An advertising agency, often referred to as a creative agency or an ad agency, is a business dedicated to creating, planning, and handling advertising and sometimes other forms of promotion and marketing for its clients. An ad agency is generally independent of the client; it may be an internal department or agency that provides an outside point of view to the effort of selling the client's products or services, or an outside firm. An agency can also handle overall marketing and branding strategies promotions for its clients, which may include sales as well. Typical ad agency clients include businesses and corporations, non-profit organizations and private agencies. Agencies may be hired to produce television advertisements, radio advertisements, online advertising, out-of-home advertising, mobile marketing, and AR advertising, as part of an advertising campaign. Contents 1 History 2 Global advertising agency 3 Client relationships 4 Agencies 5 Creativity 6 List of advertising agencies 6.1 Largest agencies 6.2 Others 6.2.1 Africa 6.2.2 Asia 6.2.3 Europe 6.2.4 North America 7 References History The first acknowledged advertising agency was William Taylor in 1786. Another early agency, started by James 'Jem' White in 1800 at Fleet Street, London, eventually evolved into White Bull Holmes, a recruitment advertising agency, that went out of business in the late 1980s.[1][2] In 1812 George Reynell, an officer at the London Gazette, set up another of the early advertising agencies, also in London.[1] This remained a family business until 1993, as 'Reynell & Son,' and is now part of the TMP Worldwide agency (UK and Ireland) under the brand TMP Reynell.[1] Another early agency that traded until recently, was founded by Charles Barker, and the firm he established traded as 'Barkers' until 2009 when it went into Administration. Volney B. Palmer opened the first American advertising agency, in Philadelphia in 1850. This agency placed ads produced by its clients in various newspapers.[3] In 1856 Mathew Brady created the first modern advertisement when he placed an ad in the New York Herald paper offering to produce "photographs, ambrotypes, and daguerreotypes." His ads were the first whose typeface and fonts were distinct from the text of the publication and from that of other advertisements. At that time all newspaper ads were set in agate and only agate. His use of larger distinctive fonts caused a sensation.[3] Later that same year Robert E. Bonner ran the first full-page ad in a newspaper.[3] In 1864, William James Carlton began selling advertising space in religious magazines. In 1869, Francis Ayer, at the age of 20, created the first full-service advertising agency in Philadelphia, called N.W. Ayer & Son. It was the oldest advertising agency in America and dissolved in 2002. James Walter Thompson joined Carlton's firm in 1868. Thompson rapidly became their best salesman, purchasing the company in 1877 and renaming it the James Walter Thompson Company. Realizing that he could sell more space if the company provided the service of developing content for advertisers, Thompson hired writers and artists to form the first known Creative Department in an advertising agency. He is credited as the "father of modern magazine advertising" in the US.[3] Advertising Age commemorated the first 100 years of the agency in 1964, noting that its "history and expansion overseas seems peculiarly to match the whole history of modern advertising."[4] Global advertising agency Globalization of advertising originates in earlier days of the twentieth century. American advertising agencies began as the process of opening overseas offices before the two World Wars and accelerated their globalization throughout the latter part of the twentieth century. McCann, an agency established in New York City in 1902, opened its first European offices by 1927. It was followed up with offices opening in South America in 1935 and in Australia in 1959.[5] Companies such as J. Walter Thompson adopted a strategy to expand in order to provide advertising services wherever clients operated. In the 1960s and 1970s, English agencies began to realize the overseas opportunities associated with globalization.[6] Expanding overseas gives potential to wider markets. Client relationships Studies show that successful advertising agencies tend to have a shared sense of purpose with their clients through collaboration. This includes a common set of client objectives where agencies feel a shared sense of ownership of the strategic process. Successful advertisements start with clients building a good relationship with the agencies and work together to figure out what their objectives are. Clients must trust the agencies to do their jobs correctly and accordingly with the resources they have provided. Breakdowns in relationships were more likely to occur when agencies felt undermined, subjugated, or even feel they don't have equal status. Traditionally advertising agencies tend to be in a position to take the lead on projects[7] but results are best when there is a more collaborative relationship. Stronger collaboration happens in situations where a personal chemistry has been established between both parties. Finding out similar likes and dislikes points of view, and even hobbies and passions. Personal chemistry builds with the length of the client relationship, frequency of meetings, and how far mutual respect goes between parties. This was one trait that advertising agencies were perceived to not always have. It was suggested that on occasions media planners and researchers were more closely involved in the project because of their personal relationships with their clients.[8] Successful strategic planning is best when both parties are involved due to the bond between sides by understanding each other's views and mindset. Involved advertising account planners are seen to contribute towards successful agency-client collaboration. Planners of advertising agencies tend to be capable of creating a very powerful, trusting relationship with their clients because they were seen as intellectual prowess, seniority, and have empathy in the creative process. Agencies All advertising agencies are called that because they are acting as agents for their principals which were the media. They were then, and are now, paid by the media to sell advertising space to clients. Originally, in the 18th century, and the first half of the 19th, advertising agencies made all of their income from commissions paid by the media for selling space to the client[9] Although it is still the case that the majority of their income comes from the media, in the middle of the 19th century, agencies began to offer additional services which they sold directly to the client. Such services can include writing the text of the advertisement.[9] Creativity The use of creativity by agencies is "unexpected" because so much advertising today is expected. This will capture the attention of audiences, therefore the message is more likely to get through. There have been many advertisements that have surprised audiences because it was not normal for them to see that in an advertisement of that nature. The best use of creativity is when the agencies make consumers think about the product or brand. The type of creativity is distinctive communication which is breaking through the clutter.[10] List of advertising agencies Largest agencies The five largest agencies, with their estimated worldwide revenues in 2014:[11] WPP, London $19.0 billion Omnicom Group, New York City $15.3 billion Publicis, Paris $9.6 billion IPG, New York City $7.5 billion Dentsu, Tokyo $6.0 billion Others This is a list of notable advertising agencies and holding companies for advertising agencies, with their headquarters' cities indicated. Africa WPP-Scangroup, Kenya Asia Asatsu-DK, Tokyo BlueFocus Communication Group, Beijing Cheil Worldwide, Seoul Digital Jungle, Beijing Hakuhodo, Tokyo Europe AKQA, London Bartle Bogle Hegarty, London Chime Communications Limited, London Dentsu Aegis Network, London Fred & Farid Group, Paris Havas, Paris M&C Saatchi, London Sells Ltd, London North America 360i, New York City aQuantive, Seattle BBDO, New York City Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners, Sausalito Cossette, Inc., Quebec City Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago Crispin Porter + Bogusky, Boulder, Colorado DDB Worldwide, New York City Deutsch NY, New York City DeVito/Verdi, New York City Doner Company, Southfield, Michigan Foote, Cone & Belding, Chicago, Illinois Grey Global Group, New York City GSD&M, Austin, Texas Leo Burnett Worldwide, Chicago, Illinois McGarryBowen, New York City MDC Partners, New York City The Miller Group, Los Angeles, California Ogilvy, New York City Publicis Sapient, Boston, Massachusetts R/GA, New York City The Richards Group, Dallas RPA, Santa Monica Sid Lee, Montreal Team One, Los Angeles Tombras Group, Knoxville, Tennessee Wieden+Kennedy, Portland, Oregon Wunderman Thompson, New York City References ^ a b c Mackay, Adrian (2004), The Practice of Advertising, London: Butterworth-Heinemann, ISBN 0-7506-6173-9. p.70. ^ "RECORDS OF R.F.WHITE AND SON LTD" (PDF). National Archives. 1983. Retrieved 16 February 2011. ^ a b c d John W. Hartman Center for Sales, Advertising & Marketing History. "Emergence of Advertising in America: Timeline". Durham, NC: Duke University Libraries. Archived from the original on 2011-02-28. 1841 - Volney B. Palmer opens the first American advertising agency, in Philadelphia. ^ "J. Walter Thompson & Co. and the 1964 Advertising Age Commemorative Issue". American Marketing Association New York. December 31, 2019. Retrieved December 31, 2019. ^ Faulconbridge, James R.; Nativel, Corinne; Beaverstock, Jonathan V.; Taylor, P J (January 2011). The globalization of advertising. Agencies, cities and spaces of creativity. Routledge. doi:10.4324/9780203860892. ISBN 9781135279813. ^ Leslie, D A (October 1995). "Global Scan: The Globalization of Advertising Agencies, Concepts, and Campaigns". Economic Geography. Taylor & Francis, Ltd. 71 (4): 402–426. doi:10.2307/144425. JSTOR 144425. ^ McArthur, & Griffin. (1997). A marketing management view of integrated marketing. Journal of Advertising Research, 19-26. ^ Grant, I., & McLeod, C. (2007). Advertising agency planning conceptualising network relationships. Marketing Management, 429. ^ a b Mayer, Richard (2005). "Chapter 5: The Advertising Agency". In Mackay, Adrian (ed.). The Practice of Advertising (hardbound) (illustrated, revised ed.). Routledge. p. 70. ISBN 9780750661737. ^ Nyilasy, Gergely; Reid, Leonard N. (September 2009). "Agency Practitioner Theories of How Advertising Works". Journal of Advertising. 38 (3): 81–96. doi:10.2753/JOA0091-3367380306. S2CID 143933112. ^ "Reference at adage.coverleaf.com". Authority control National libraries France (data) Germany Israel United States Japan Other National Archives (US) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Advertising_agency&oldid=1056260063" Categories: Advertising agencies Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Articles needing additional references from April 2015 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles with style issues from June 2017 All articles with style issues Articles with multiple maintenance issues Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with GND identifiers Articles with J9U identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NDL identifiers Articles with NARA identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Afrikaans العربية Български Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español فارسی Français ગુજરાતી 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית Қазақша Lietuvių Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ Slovenčina Suomi Svenska తెలుగు Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 20 November 2021, at 18:48 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement