The One Where Rachel Finds Out - WikipediaThe One Where Rachel Finds Out From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 24th episode of the first season of Friends "The One Where Rachel Finds Out" Friends episode Episode no. Season 1 Episode 24 Directed by Kevin S. Bright Written by Chris Brown Production code 456673 Original air date May 18, 1995 (1995-05-18) Episode chronology ← Previous "The One with the Birth" Next → "The One with Ross's New Girlfriend" Friends (season 1) List of episodes "The One Where Rachel Finds Out" is the 24th and final episode of Friends' first season. It first aired on the NBC network in the United States on May 18, 1995.[1] Plot[edit] Joey participates in a fertility study at NYU. Part of the study requires that he abstain from sex for two weeks, impacting his relationship with new girlfriend Melanie (co-owner of a fruit basket company). The gang holds a barbecue to celebrate Rachel's birthday; Ross finds out he has to go to China at the last minute for an important paleontology find. He drops off a present for Rachel before he leaves. While opening her presents (Chandler got her Travel Scrabble; Joey got her an Oh, the Places You'll Go! by Dr. Seuss), Rachel finds Ross gave her a cameo pin she had admired several months ago. Chandler accidentally lets slip that Ross is in love with her. Rachel rushes to the airport to talk to Ross, but is unable to reach him before he gets on his flight. Rachel then spends the next few days deciding what to do, and on the night Ross is due to arrive back from China, even tries going on a date with another man to take her mind off it. However, when she keeps fantasizing about Ross during the date, she finally decides to give their relationship a chance and rushes off to greet him at the airport. Unbeknownst to her, Ross has started dating another woman while in China. Reception[edit] In the original broadcast, the episode was viewed by 31.3 million viewers.[citation needed] Sam Ashurst from Digital Spy ranked it #70 on their ranking of the 236 Friends episodes, and called it a popular episode with a strong cliffhanger ending.[2] Telegraph & Argus ranked it the 10th best episode on their ranking of all 236 Friends episodes.[3] References[edit] ^ "Friends | TV Guide". ^ "Every single Friends episode – RANKED". Digital Spy. January 2018. ^ https://www.thetelegraphandargus.co.uk/news/13745603.the-definitive-ranking-of-all-236-friends-episodes v t e Friends episodes Season 1 "The Pilot" "The One with the Sonogram at the End" "The One with the Thumb" "The One with George Stephanopoulos" "The One with the Blackout" "The One with the Monkey" "The One Where the Monkey Gets Away" "The One with the Fake Monica" "The One Where Rachel Finds Out" Season 2 "The One with Ross's New Girlfriend" "The One with Russ" "The One with the Lesbian Wedding" "The One After the Superbowl" "The One with the Prom Video" "The One Where Dr. Ramoray Dies" "The One with Barry and Mindy's Wedding" Season 3 "The One with the Princess Leia Fantasy" "The One Where No One's Ready" "The One with the Flashback" "The One with the Football" "The One with the Morning After" "The One at the Beach" Season 4 "The One with the Jellyfish" "The One with the Cat" "The One with the Embryos" "The One with Ross's Wedding" Season 5 "The One After Ross Says Rachel" "The One Hundredth" "The One with All the Thanksgivings" "The One Where Everybody Finds Out" "The One with the Girl Who Hits Joey" "The One with the Cop" "The One Where Rachel Smokes" "The One Where Ross Can't Flirt" "The One with the Ride-Along" "The One with Joey's Big Break" "The One in Vegas" Season 6 "The One After Vegas" "The One Where Ross Got High" "The One with the Apothecary Table" "The One with Unagi" "The One with the Proposal" Season 7 "The One with Monica's Thunder" "The One with All the Candy" "The One with All the Cheesecakes" "The One Where They're Up All Night" "The One with Ross and Monica's Cousin" "The One with Monica and Chandler's Wedding" Season 8 "The One After 'I Do'" "The One with Rachel's Date" "The One with the Halloween Party" "The One with the Rumor" "The One Where Rachel Has a Baby" Season 9 "The One Where No One Proposes" "The One with Ross's Inappropriate Song" "The One with Rachel's Dream" "The One in Barbados" Season 10 "The One After Joey and Rachel Kiss" "The One Where Ross Is Fine" "The One with Ross's Tan" "The One with Phoebe's Wedding" "The Last One" Specials Friends: The Reunion Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_One_Where_Rachel_Finds_Out&oldid=1054763228" Categories: 1995 American television episodes Friends (season 1) episodes Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2020 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Bosanski Русский Edit links This page was last edited on 11 November 2021, at 23:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement