Friendly Fire | Friends | Television News | TV | Entertainment Weekly | 142 captures 19 Jul 2009 - 13 Jan 2022 Jun JUL May 19 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090719103906/http://www.ew.com:80/ew/article/0,,275935,00.html EW.com Special Coverage Michael Jackson Reality TV The Must List Twilight Summer Entertainment Comic-Con Home News All Headlines Columns Current Reviews Latest News Hollywood Insider Blog News Briefs Blog PopWatch Blog Charts tech Stage Movies Movie Headlines Movie Reviews Coming Soon Hollywood Insider Blog OscarWatch Blog Box Office Chart Critical Mass Chart Movies Database EW Movie Picks TV TV Headlines TV Watch TV Reviews Tonight's Best TV The Ausiello Files Blog Hollywood Insider Blog Watching TV Blog Top Rated TV TV Database EW TV Picks Music Music Headlines Music Reviews The Music Mix Blog Best Selling Pop Albums Music Database EW Music Picks DVD DVD Headlines DVD Reviews Top Selling DVDs DVD Database Books Book Headlines Book Reviews Top Selling Fiction Book Database EW Book Picks More Magazine Archive Contributors Newsletters RSS Headline Feeds Promotions EW Blogs EW Games Special Coverage Video Ausiello TV The Bachelor Festival Exclusives First Looks Idolatry Movie Trailers Must List Live OscarWatch Survivor Talk Totally 'Lost' TV TV Headlines Emmys nom that made you happiest? Walter Cronkite dies at 92 'Big Brother': Braden speaks! 11 'Did you see it?!' TV moments 'Twilight' vs. 'Potter' via Fallon More TV Headlines Today's Most Popular Comic-Con '09: 17 sneak peeks Breaking: Jorja Fox returns to 'CSI' This week's cover: 'Iron Man 2' with exclusive photos! 'Futurama' getting new voices for Fry, Leela, Bender, and others Sci-Fi Hotties: Vote for your favorite female! TV Watch 'So You Think You Can Dance' recap: America gets it 75 percent right 'Big Brother' Recap: Strategizing and terrorizing J.K. Rowling: A very good 'Year' 'So You Think You Can Dance' recap: A season of their own 'America's Got Talent' recap: Cannon fodder (oh, hello, Mariah!) More TV Watch TV Reviews Law & Order: Criminal Intent Royal Pains The Closer 10 Things I Hate About You Hung More TV Reviews TV Database EW Presents... Exclusive star interviews EW Games EW Home // TV // Friendly Fire Television News Friendly Fire ''Friends'' demand a raise--TV's top sitcom stars want another huge pay hike, meaning the future of the show is uncertain More By Lynette Rice Lynette Rice On the night of April 14, inside a secure Burbank soundstage, the cast of Friends will tape their season finale. Monica will act neurotic, Joey will say something dumb, Phoebe will say something really dumb, and that'll be it. Forever. Friends no more. Okay, we admit it: That's an extreme worst-case scenario — but it is possible. As the sixth season draws to a close, NBC's six comely sitcom stars still haven't renewed their about-to-expire contracts. The problem: They want a raise. A big one. This season, each actor earned $125,000 per episode. For next fall, insiders report, they're pushing for as much as $800,000 per show, plus back pay for this season's 24 shows. Just as shockingly, some sources say the mastermind behind the Friends' hardball tactics is none other than the strikingly unditsy Lisa Kudrow. ''She's the group leader,'' says an agent familiar with the negotiations. ''They all rely on her a lot.'' Some of the cast — specifically the three guys (Matt LeBlanc, David Schwimmer, and Matthew Perry) — wanted to renegotiate last May, a year before their four-year contract expired, says a source on the show. The gals (Kudrow, Jennifer Aniston, and Courteney Cox Arquette) preferred to stall. ''Lisa thought that by waiting till the 11th hour, the network would be panicked, and it would help them get leverage,'' says another agent. The waiting game will likely pay off. Though Friends' ratings have dipped (the show averages 20.8 million viewers, down 13 percent from last season), it's still TV's No. 1 sitcom and NBC's Thursday-night anchor. ''We want Friends to come back and are hopeful it will happen...it would be a true shame if this can't be resolved,'' says an NBC spokeswoman. And no doubt the network wants to seal a deal before May 15, when it announces its fall schedule to advertisers. Still, NBC probably would share the cost of a mammoth salary bump — which could amount to as much as $97 million next year — with Warner Bros. Television, Friends' production company. Considering the show's reruns are expected to generate nearly $1 billion for Warner in their first five years, the cast's demands aren't as outrageous as they may seem. After all, even Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt snagged $1 million per episode in 1998 for NBC's infinitely weaker Mad About You. Says one (admittedly actor-friendly) agent: ''They haven't been treated fairly up to this point. They are so underpaid it's ridiculous.'' (Warner declined to comment.) And — before you feel too sorry for the poor kids — consider that each actor owns about a half percentage point of the show's syndication fees, which could come to a not-so-shabby $5 million apiece. The Friends negotiated that little back-end bonus after their first high-profile contract negotiations. In 1996, the sexy sextet declared their now infamous ''all for one, one for all'' status at the bargaining table — despite a willingness by Warner to cut separate deals with each actor, says one insider familiar with the talks. Page 1 of 2 Next E-mail Print Del.icio.us Google StumbleUpon Facebook Digg More You Might Also Like TV Review Friends | Ken Tucker TV Review Friends | Ken Tucker Review Friends Review Friends Internet Commentary Best of the Web Movie News TV shows on the big screen | Gillian Flynn From People Katherine Heigl and Gerard Butler Evacuate Los Angeles Hotel Video: Check Out Susan Boyle's Makeover Report: Paparazzi and Security Guards Clash Outside Gosselin Photo Shoot Add to My AOL, My Yahoo From InStyle Look of the Day: Shenae Grimes Transformation: Katherine Heigl Parties: The Ugly Truth Premiere and Hot Shots Add to My AOL, My Yahoo More from EW.com 'Twilight' Central Dancing With the Stars American Idol Lost Home Help Site Map About Us Advertising Magazine Customer Service Subscribe Promotions Newsletters RSS Privacy Policy Terms of Service Copyright © 2009 Entertainment Weekly. All rights reserved.