USATODAY.com33 captures 24 Oct 2012 - 12 Feb 2022 Oct JUL Sep 15 2012 2013 2014 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20130715065109/http://usatoday30.usatoday.com:80/community/chat/2002-04-23-friends.htm Home News Travel Money Sports Life Tech Weather Talk Today Talk home Chat FAQ Message Boards Books Travel Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Football 01/21/2005 - Updated 06:41 PM ET 'Friends': Kevin Bright Tuesday, April 23, 1:30 p.m. ET For eight seasons, TV viewers have delighted in the misadventures of NBC's Friends: Phoebe (Lisa Kudrow), Monica (Courtney Cox-Arquette), Rachel (Jennifer Aniston), Ross (David Schwimmer), Chandler (Matthew Perry), and Joey (Matt LeBlanc). On April 30, Warner Home Video will release the complete first season of Friends on VHS and DVD. Talk to the show's executive producer Kevin Bright about the collection's special features and all things Friends-related. Missed the chat? Read the transcript below: honolulu Hawaii: Mr. Bright, First I want to say Friends is the only show that truly makes me laugh out loud, I probaly speak for most of the viewers. My question is: What percentage of the shows ideas and script come from the cast? Also who is the the closet to being there true self of everyday life on the show? Kevin Bright: The cast does add ideas,but the very large majority of the ideas come from the writers. I would say that every actor brings elements of who they are individually to their part on the show, but it is fiction, and no one has exact qualities like their character. But Gunther is most like himself. Westwood, CA: Kevin - With all the success "Friends" has had in its eight years, I'm surprised you've never shot any episodes (or parts of episodes) on location in New York City. Has that ever been considered, and is there a chance we'll see it before the series ends its run? Kevin Bright: I'm surprised too. I hope that could happen. It's a matter of coming up with the right story that takes heavy advantage of being on location. Having said that, we find that taking the show out of the studio makes it less funny, even when we shoot on the lot outside. The live audience is such an integral part of the show. The only reason we went on location to London is we knew we had such a large fanbase there. Duluth, MN: Will you be releasing every season on dvd??? Kevin Bright: Yes. And they will all have footage that was originally cut out of the shows. Seoul, Korea: i'm grateful to you for new release of Freinds!! But because i'm Korean, i prefer to reading Korean descript on TV. you got a plan to release new Korean version or an other language? Kevin Bright: I don't have the answer to that question. That would be something to direct to Warner Brothers Home Video, International division, to the attention of Brian Jameson. Patrick, Idaho: Hello Kevin, I'm curious.....now that Friends is slated to go one more season, can you clear up any thoughts on what finale would have been like? I heard stuff as wild as Rachel was supposed to have died at delivery and the remaining friends taking care of the baby as a series finale? Kevin Bright: While we were talking about plans for if the show ended this season, the story line of that plan never came to full fruition. I can say that no, nobody was ever going to die. Burlington NC: How did you choose each person for there part,and who they were going to play. Kevin Bright: We held auditions where we saw about 500 actors between New York and Los Angeles. David Schwimmer we worked with before, and the writers had him in mind for the part of Ross. Lisa and Jennifer and Matthew and Matt we cast from auditions. Courtney we originally wanted to play Rachel, and she insisted she wasn't Rachel but Monica. And she was right. Austin, TX: Will Phoebe's Science guy that went to Minsk be back in the final season? Kevin Bright: Possibly. It depends on Hank Azaria's schedule. He's a very busy actor. Houston, Texas: I remember an episode where Phoebe tells Joey that ultimately they would wind up together after a series of failed relationships among the Friends group. Do the writers/producers put any foreshadowing into the scripts that will ultimately come true in the end? Kevin Bright: To date, if you foreshadow too much when you try to create a cliffhanger it isn't much of a surprise. In terms of things that have been discussed on the show through 8 seasons, whether they'll come to be realized, you'll have to watch next season! FX,VA: All good things must come to an end-that's life. Having written that... will there be spinoffs from the Friends characters? Kevin Bright: It is highly unlikely that there will be spinoffs done with the six main Friends characters, however there are rumors that Gunther may have his own show :) Richmond, VA: What are some of the extras we can expect to see in the DVD versions? Can we expect to see more bloopers included? Kevin Bright: We hope in the release of future seasons that that will be an element of the home video DVDs. We're working on it now. The first season has great stuff. When Freinds was poor, the first season was the ugliest. We've gone back and done the color correction. Each episode has cut scenes, enhanced sound, and a map of Central Perk. Comment from Kevin Bright: There's also bios of the cast and the producers. College Park, MD: Mr. Bright, thank you for taking the time to answer questions. I have to ask, with the storyline receiving such overwhelming praise by television critics, and with ratings averaging around 28 million viewers each episode, why did you guys feel the need to not only completely drop the Joey/Rachel storyline, but then pretend like it didn't even happen in the episodes following it? I know that you shoot episodes months in advance, so it can be hard to be responsive to public reaction, but clearly the response to this storyline was on a much larger scale than was your intention. What exactly was your intention with this storyline? Kevin Bright: First of all, you're making the assumption that it IS over and we've forgotten about it. But you'll just have to keep watching to find out. I'm not being cute; that's just all I can say about this topic right now. Albion, NY: Will Emily ever make an appearance on the show? Kevin Bright: Again? Highly improbable. Cincinnati, OH: Are we ever going to see Friends bloopers again? If so, when? Kevin Bright: We'll see them again. We're in the process now of making that happen for future volumes of the home video. Washington, D.C.: Any chance of incorporating September 11 into a storyline? Kevin Bright: We're a comedy show, and there is nothing funny about September 11. Dramas are much better equipped to handle that subject matter. We tried to subtly acknowledge in the show that it did happen -- an American flag hanging in the coffee shop, etc. But it's just not something that is funny. We thought about doing something momentarily, and decided it was best to stay away from. When people come to a show to laugh and enjoy themselves, the last thing they need is September 11. It was in enough places. Washington, D.C.: What about the apartments in the show? A bit excessive, aren't they? Kevin Bright: In the reality of life in New York for people of this age, yes, they are rather large apartments. But in the process of making a TV show, the space has to be big enough for cameras, lighting, and for the audience to be able to see what's going on. It's to provide a place for the talented actors to execute the funny scripts. That's what you're supposed to be looking at, not the size of the apartment. USATODAY.com partners: USA WEEKEND Sports Weekly Education Space.com Home Travel News Money Sports Life Tech Weather Resources: Mobile news Site map FAQ Contact us E-mail news Jobs with us Internships Terms of service Privacy policy/Your California Privacy Right Advertise Press Room Media Lounge Electronic print edition Reprints and Permissions Add USATODAY.com RSS feeds The Nation's Homepage Copyright 2008 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.