Scene It? - WikipediaScene It? From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Video game series This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Scene It?" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Scene It? Publishers Screenlife Games / Mattel Players At least 2 (can be played in teams) Setup time 5 minutes Playing time 30 to 45 minutes Random chance Medium Skills required Movie/Pop Culture knowledge, & Dice rolling Scene It? is an interactive film series created by Screenlife Games, in which players answer trivia questions about films or pop culture. The games were first developed to be played with questions read from trivia cards or viewed on a television from an included DVD or based on clips from movies, TV shows, music videos, sports and other popular culture phenomena. Scene It? was made available as a mobile game for iPhone, iPad, on Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Wii as well as two social network games on Facebook. Contents 1 History 2 Gameplay 3 Optreve DVD Enhancement Technology 4 Releases 5 Video games 6 References History[edit] Creator Dave Long made the first prototype of Scene It? in 1992, when he placed several hit films on a VHS tape and had guests identify them as quickly as possible when they played on screen. He spent the next few years developing it into a game on DVD since VHS at the time had too many restrictions. In 2000, Dave finalized the DVD and named it 'Reel to Real', he then contacted local investors to bring his game onto shelves. After setting a brand, Scene It? was released to the public in 2002. And the hit game was turned into a series. Gameplay[edit] Players choose either a short or long game by adjusting the "Flextime" game board: For a short game, the board is folded so fewer spaces show. Each player throws a six-sided die to see who goes first. Then, the player rolls both the ordinary die and a customized eight-sided "category die" to see how far they move, and what challenge they face. The challenge can range from a trivia card question, a DVD challenge, ("My Play" or "All Play"), or they may have to draw a "Buzz card" (Cards are often renamed in special editions such as a "Prime Directive" card in the Star Trek edition). If the roller wins the challenge, they can go again, but if they lose, the dice are handed to the next player. This process keeps going until someone hits the All Play to Win stop sign, in which that player must win one final All Play, in which everyone participates, in order to win. If not, they go to ring 3 of the zone called Final Cut. There they must answer 3 questions right. If that falls through, then on the next turn they only have to answer 2 questions, and if they fail that as well, they answer 1 question on every following turn. If a Final Cut challenge is won, then they win the game, and they get to watch a victory scene on the DVD. Optreve DVD Enhancement Technology[edit] All board game versions of Scene It? use a DVD that is designed to reshuffle itself every time it is inserted into the DVD player. In some instances, the DVD player may reset the system, and in this case, the DVD will reshuffle itself before returning players to the game menu. If a question from a previous game is shown in the same session, players can hit the "Return" button on their remote in order to start a new question. Some DVD players do not support this technology, but players can choose from 20 to 25 (depends on version) pre-set games to play. As their title suggests, these game sets are not random, and stay constant, no matter how many times the DVD is reset. Releases[edit] Movie Edition Deluxe Movie Edition Deluxe Sequel Pack Junior Edition Music Edition TV Edition Harry Potter 1st Edition (2005) Harry Potter 2nd Edition (2007) Harry Potter The Complete Cinematic Journey (2011) Disney Edition Sports Edition Squabble Edition Gute Zeiten Schlechte Zeiten Edition Warner Bros. Television 50th Anniversary Edition James Bond Edition HBO Edition Turner Classic Movies Edition Nickelodeon Edition (2006) (Edition includes questions based on all original non-game show shows on the network at the time of its release, with the exception of Doug for copyright issues with The Walt Disney Company, as well as older sitcoms, All That, The Amanda Show, and KaBlam!.) Marvel Comics Edition Friends Edition Friends Deluxe Edition Movie 2nd Edition Deluxe Movie 2nd Edition Disney 2nd Edition Pirates of the Caribbean Edition Doctor Who Edition The OC Edition FIFA Edition Disney Channel Edition Seinfeld Edition Star Trek Edition Disney Magical Moments Edition The Simpsons Edition 80s Edition Twilight & Twilight Saga Editions Comedy Movies Edition Glee Edition (this was the last game in the series) Star Wars Edition (canceled) Movie Night Edition (canceled) Video games[edit] Main articles: Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action; Scene It? Box Office Smash; Scene It? Bright Lights! Big Screen!; and Scene It? Twilight A video game version of Scene It?, entitled Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action was released for the Xbox 360 on November 6, 2007. It featured 20 new game modes/categories and special game show-style "Big Button Controllers". The first sequel, Scene It? Box Office Smash was released on October 28, 2008, featuring the new Xbox 360 Avatars. A second sequel, Scene It? Bright Lights! Big Screen! was released on November 17, 2009 for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii. Opting for a multi-platform approach, this title abandoned the avatars in favor of more generic characters. After Scene It? Twilight two sequels were released: on November 18, 2010 Scene It? Harry Potter HD for iOS and on November 30, 2011 Scene It? Movie Night for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Two unsuccessful, web-only versions of the game, Scene It? Online, and Scene It? Daily,[1][2] were made available online, on Facebook, and on mobile platforms. Scene It? Online borrowed strongly from the DVD games' format, including video clips, sound clips, and puzzles. Scene It? Daily was predominantly text based, and represented a major departure from the multimedia-centric roots of the series.[2] References[edit] ^ Bishop, Todd. "'Scene It?' goes daily with unified trivia game across web, devices". GeekWire. Retrieved 27 February 2018. ^ a b Webster, Andrew. "Scene It? Daily Review". GameZebo. Retrieved 27 February 2018. v t e Mattel Toy brands American Girl Bitty Baby Girls of Many Lands Barbie My Scene Big Jim Blaze Chatty Cathy Creatable World Diva Starz Fijit Friends Flavas Food Fighters Furryville Hot Wheels Liddle Kiddles Magic 8-Ball Manta Force Masters of the Universe (Princess of Power) Matchbox Max Steel Mighty Max Mindflex Monster High (Ever After High • Enchantimals) My Child Pixel Chix Polly Pocket See 'n Say Slime Thingmaker/Creepy Crawlers What's Her Face Xtractaurs Licensed Cabbage Patch Kids Cars DC Super Hero Girls Despicable Me Ghostbusters Harry Potter Intel Play Jurassic World Lady Lovely Locks Minecraft Pixar Rainbow Brite Toy Story Turning Mecard WWE Games Apples to Apples Balderdash Bezzerwizzer Blokus Mad Gab Othello Outburst Pictionary Phase 10 Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots Scrabble (except U.S. and Canada) Scene It? Skip-Bo Toss Across U.B. Funkeys Uno Entertainment properties Angelina Ballerina Barney & Friends Bob the Builder Fireman Sam Pingu Thomas & Friends Business units Fisher-Price Mattel Television Mattel Films Mega Brands Corporate acquisitions Bluebird Fuhu HIT Entertainment Ideal J. W. Spear & Sons Tyco Toys Mebetoys Radica Games View-Master International Bought and sold Circus World Feld Entertainment Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus Ice Follies And Holiday on Ice Litigation "Barbie Girl" song case Barbie's Restaurants trademark dispute Tom Forsythe lawsuit(s) View-Master factory lawsuit Other Power Glove The Toy Box Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scene_It%3F&oldid=1062225768" Categories: Scene It? Games and sports introduced in 2002 2002 video games DVD interactive technology Party board games Mattel games Video board games Video games scored by George Sanger Video games developed in the United States Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from March 2021 All articles needing additional references Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano Svenska Edit links This page was last edited on 27 December 2021, at 04:07 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement