USA Weekend - WikipediaUSA Weekend From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search American weekend newspaper magazine USA Weekend USA Weekend cover from October 22, 2006; the top blank bar features a reproduction of the carrying newspaper's masthead. Categories Sunday magazine Frequency Weekly Year founded 1953; 69 years ago (1953) (as Family Weekly) Final issue December 28, 2014; 7 years ago (2014-12-28) Company Gannett Country United States Based in McLean, Virginia Language English Website www.usaweekend.com USA Weekend was an American weekend newspaper magazine owned by the Gannett Company. Structured as a sister publication to Gannett's flagship newspaper USA Today and distributed in the Sunday editions of participating local newspapers,[1] it was at its peak the country's second-largest national magazine supplement (behind Parade) and was distributed to more than 800 newspapers nationwide.[2] Contents 1 Overview 1.1 Shutdown 2 Columns 3 Make a Difference Day 4 References 5 External links Overview[edit] The publication was incorporated as Family Weekly,[2] a supplement started in 1953. By the mid-1980s, the magazine was carried in 362 newspapers nationwide for a total circulation of 12.8 million copies, making it the third-largest weekly magazine in the U.S., ranking behind its main competitor Parade (owned since 1976 by Advance Publications, which sold it to Athlon Media Group in 2014) and TV Guide. The Gannett Company purchased the supplement from CBS, Inc. on February 21, 1985. When the sale was finalized later that spring, Gannett renamed the publication USA Weekend and designated 1985 as its founding year for promotional purposes and anniversary observances. Most of the newspapers that Gannett owned soon carried USA Weekend within their Sunday editions as their default magazine supplement.[3] USA Weekend focused its articles on social issues, entertainment personalities and pop culture, health, food reviews and recipes, and travel.[1] In addition to Parade,[2][4][5] USA Weekend also competed alongside some Sunday magazines published for individual newspapers in select U.S. cities such as The New York Times Magazine.[5] The magazine provided Newspaper In Education classroom guides to partner newspapers, for use by teachers to provide educational material for students.[6] Shutdown[edit] On December 5, 2014, Gannett announced that it would cease publication of USA Weekend with the December 26–28, 2014, edition and lay off 30 advertising and editorial staffers.[7][8] The shutdown was reportedly due to mounting distribution costs and a decline in advertising revenue (revenue for Sunday magazines through advertising buys had decreased by 10.9% year-over-year between the first two quarters of 2013 and the first half of 2014. USA Weekend lost up to $10 million in operating costs during the 2013 and 2014 fiscal years), which in previous years had resulted in the shift from the carrier newspapers paying a licensing fee to Gannett to publishers of these papers receiving a fee from the company for distributing USA Weekend (a structure that had also affected other syndicated Sunday magazines). As well, the supplement's circulation had declined, shrinking from the mid-2000s high of up to 70 million copies distributed through newsstand sales and home-delivery newspaper subscriptions down to around 18 million in 2014. For its final years of publication, the magazine had relied on writers and columnists from USA Today to help provide feature content for the magazine, after Gannett laid off several members of USA Weekend's writing staff.[2][7] The decision to cease publication of the supplement came one year after Gannett began distributing a seven-day-a-week supplement featuring condensed content from USA Today for syndication to the company's own local newspapers as well as partner newspapers owned by other publishers, with company executives said the supplement's Weekend Life section provided better content than USA Weekend.[2][5][9][10] The end of USA Weekend left Parade as the only weekend newspaper magazine published in the United States. Parade, which had only appeared previously in acquired Gannett newspapers to fulfill contracts with previous owners, has now returned to many Gannett newspapers as a replacement for USA Weekend. Columns[edit] Columns and contributors featured in USA Weekend included: CookSmart – a recipe column written by Ellie Krieger EatSmart – a food column by Jean Carper, focusing on healthy recipes and tips HealthSmart – a health information column written by the hosts of The Doctors MoneySmart – a financial advice column written by Sharon Epperson and Walecia Konrad Who's News – a column focusing on newsmakers of the past week, written by Lorrie Lynch Wit&Wisdom – a feature focusing on humor and insight, written by Terry Stickels Other notable contributors included: Ken Burns Steven V. Roberts Cokie Roberts Tavis Smiley Make a Difference Day[edit] In 1992, USA Weekend's Make a Difference Day created an annual community service event, held on the fourth Saturday of October. At the 2013 event, the company gave 14 community groups $10,000 to donate to their local charities.[11] References[edit] ^ a b "Gannett folds USA Weekend Magazine". Portada. December 7, 2014. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ a b c d e "USA Weekend calls it quits". Davis Enterprise. December 28, 2014. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ "Gannett Gets Family Weekly". The New York Times. February 22, 1985. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ David Brauer (August 19, 2009). "Star Tribune plans to dump USA Weekend, pick up Parade". MinnPost. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ a b c Stuart Elliott (December 11, 2014). "Consolidation Coming in Sunday Magazines". The New York Times. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ "USA WEEKEND's Newspaper in Education Program". USA Weekend. Gannett Company. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ a b Jordan Chariton (December 5, 2014). "USA Today Shuttering USA Weekend Magazine". The Wrap. The Wrap Media, LLC. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ Jim Lenahan (December 24, 2014). "Last words: USA WEEKEND says goodbye and thanks". USA Today. Gannett Company. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ Alan D. Mutter (December 5, 2014). "USA Weekend shuts as costs spike and ads tumble". Newsosaur. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ Emma Bazilian (December 5, 2014). "USA Today Shutters Weekend Magazine - USA Weekend was the country's second-largest news mag". Adweek. Prometheus Global Media. Retrieved December 28, 2014. ^ McKenna Grant (April 26, 2013). "Grassroots volunteers receive national awards in Washington, D.C." USA Weekend. Gannett Company. Retrieved December 28, 2014. External links[edit] United States portal Media portal USA Weekend at the Wayback Machine (archive index) v t e Gannett People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMAjunkie.com Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e Gannett regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic La Voz Arizona Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Austin American-Statesman Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times Carlsbad Current-Argus The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune The Courier-Journal Courier News Courier-Post Crookston Daily Times The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Tribune The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News The Mexico Ledger Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Moberly Monitor-Index Montgomery Advertiser The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Press The News-Star The Newton Kansan Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Taunton Daily Gazette Telegram & Gazette The Tennessean The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Times Telegram The Topeka Capital-Journal Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus, Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus, Bradford Daily Gazette, Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo, Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald, Glasgow News Shopper, South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National, Scotland * The National, Wales The Northern Echo The Press, York Southern Daily Echo, Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Predecessors GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=USA_Weekend&oldid=1060063171" Categories: Lifestyle magazines published in the United States Weekly magazines published in the United States Defunct magazines published in the United States Former CBS Corporation subsidiaries Gannett publications Magazines established in 1953 Magazines disestablished in 2014 Newspaper supplements Sunday magazines Former Gannett subsidiaries USA Today Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Webarchive template wayback links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Edit links This page was last edited on 13 December 2021, at 07:05 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement