The Palm Beach Post - WikipediaThe Palm Beach Post From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Daily newspaper in West Palm Beach, Florida The Palm Beach Post Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) Gannett[1] Founded 1916 Headquarters 2751 South Dixie Highway West Palm Beach, Florida 33405 United States Circulation 88,231 Daily 142,679 Sunday[2] ISSN 1528-5758 Website PalmBeachPost.com The Palm Beach Post is an American daily newspaper serving Palm Beach County in South Florida, and parts of the Treasure Coast. On March 18, 2018, in a deal worth US$42.35 million, The Palm Beach Post and The Palm Beach Daily News were purchased by New York-based New Media Investment Group Inc., which has ever since owned and operated The Palm Beach Post and all circulations and associated digital media sources. Contents 1 History 2 Recent operations 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] The Palm Beach Post began as The Palm Beach County, a weekly newspaper established in 1910. On January 5, 1916, the weekly became a daily, morning publication known as The Palm Beach Post. In 1934, the Palm Beach businessman Edward R. Bradley bought The Palm Beach Post and The Palm Beach Times, which published daily in the afternoon daily. In 1947, both were purchased by the longtime resident John Holliday Perry Sr., who owned a Florida newspaper chain of six dailies and 15 weeklies. In 1948, Perry purchased both the Palm Beach Daily News, the main newspaper for the island of Palm Beach, and the society magazine Palm Beach Life. In June 1969, Cox Enterprises, based in Atlanta, purchased Perry's Palm Beach and West Palm Beach publications and formed Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc. Cox was founded by James M. Cox, a former Ohio governor and the 1920 Democratic presidential candidate who built a media company that today includes daily newspapers; weekly newspapers, radio and television stations; U.S. cable TV systems, local Internet media sites; and Mannheim auto auction locations. In 1979, The Palm Beach Times was renamed The Evening Times. In 1987, The Evening Times and The Post merged into a single morning newspaper called The Palm Beach Post. In 1989, all assets and archives of the neighboring sister publication Miami News assets and archives were merged with The Palm Beach Post upon the closure of the former newspaper on New Year's Eve in 1988. In 1996, The Palm Beach Post sponsored the Scripps National Spelling Bee winner Wendy Guey. The Palm Beach Post photographer Dallas Kinney won the 1970 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography for his portfolio of pictures of Florida migrant workers, Migration to Misery. The Post has since had photographers been Pulitzer finalists three times.[3] The paper became nationally recognized for its coverage of the 2000 presidential election for reporting about flawed ballots occurring in Palm Beach County.[4] In 2003, The Palm Beach Post won an American Society of Newspaper Editors (ASNE) prize for their coverage on a local bishop's resignation following confirmed sexual abuse allegations.[4] Editor Edward Sears won the Editor of the Year award in 2004 from Editor & Publisher. Sears led the newsroombof The Post from 1985 to 2005.[5] On Oct. 31, 2017, Cox Media Group announced its plans to sell The Palm Beach Post and Palm Beach Daily News. In 2018, it was announced that GateHouse Media would buy the newspapers for US$49.25 million, with the deal closing on May 1.[6] As part of the Gannett and GateHouse Media merger of 2019, nine staffers were laid off from The Palm Beach Post in 2020.[7][8] Recent operations[edit] In March 1996, PalmBeachPost.com was launched. In June 2008, the leaders of The Post decided to focus on the core readership area of Palm Beach County and southern Martin County. As digital readership grows, print readership slows. Faced with economic downturn and a changing industry, The Post reduced its payroll of 1,350 to about 1,000 and closes bureaus in Stuart, Port St. Lucie and Delray Beach. In December 2008, The Post closed its presses and moved printing to the Deerfield Beach plant of the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel. On March 18, 2018, The Palm Beach Post was sold to the New York-based New Media Investment Group Inc. in a deal worth US$42.35 million. In August 2018, The Post had its digital team launch the GateHouse Florida Digital Audience team to expand GateHouse's digital audience across Florida. On April 4, 2019, the longtime editor Tim Burke accepted a lucrative position worth hundreds of thousands of dollars with LRP Media Group after the sale of The Palm Beach Post and all subsidies to the New York Conglomerate, New Media Investment Group. LRP is currently registered as a political research group in Florida. On Dec. 17, 2020, The Post named Rick Christie as its executive editor.[9] See also[edit] List of newspapers in Florida Journalism portal References[edit] ^ "Help Center - The Palm Beach Post". ^ "2012 Top 100 Daily Newspapers in the U.S. by Circulation" (PDF). BurrellesLuce. January 2013. Retrieved March 21, 2013.[dead link] ^ Pulitzer.org Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine. ^ a b "Gale Academic OneFile Select - Document - 10 That Do It RIGHT - The Palm Beach Post West Palm Beach, Fla". go.gale.com. Retrieved 2021-04-01. ^ E&P Staff (January 5, 2005). "'Palm Beach Post' Editor Edward Sears to Retire". Editor & Publisher. Retrieved June 1, 2014. ^ "New Media acquires The Palm Beach Post & Palm Beach Daily News for $49.3M." The Fly, 28 Mar. 2018. Gale General OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A532598357/ITOF?u=mlin_m_wellcol&sid=ITOF&xid=9a7dc744. Accessed 1 Apr. 2021. ^ "9 staffers laid off at The Palm Beach Post as part of Gannett/GateHouse merger". WPTV. 2020-02-27. Retrieved 2021-04-01. ^ Tracy, Marc (2019-11-19). "Gannett, Now Largest U.S. Newspaper Chain, Targets 'Inefficiencies'". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 2021-04-01. ^ Rose, Carol. "Palm Beach Post names veteran journalist Rick Christie as executive editor". The Palm Beach Post. Retrieved 2021-06-18. External links[edit] Official website v t e Gannett People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMAjunkie.com Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e Gannett regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic La Voz Arizona Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Austin American-Statesman Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times Carlsbad Current-Argus The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune The Courier-Journal Courier News Courier-Post Crookston Daily Times The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Tribune The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News The Mexico Ledger Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Moberly Monitor-Index Montgomery Advertiser The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Press The News-Star The Newton Kansan Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Taunton Daily Gazette Telegram & Gazette The Tennessean The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Times Telegram The Topeka Capital-Journal Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus, Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus, Bradford Daily Gazette, Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo, Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald, Glasgow News Shopper, South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National, Scotland * The National, Wales The Northern Echo The Press, York Southern Daily Echo, Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Predecessors GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group Authority control ISNI 1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Palm_Beach_Post&oldid=1074834513" Categories: Mass media in the Miami metropolitan area Newspapers published in Florida Palm Beach County, Florida Publications established in 1916 Pulitzer Prize-winning newspapers West Palm Beach, Florida 1916 establishments in Florida Gannett publications Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from May 2016 Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles with ISNI identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français 한국어 हिन्दी Latina Português Edit links This page was last edited on 2 March 2022, at 12:40 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement