Entertainment & the Arts | Baby episode could make 'Friends' TV's top show | Seattle Times Newspaper41 captures 22 Jan 2009 - 12 Feb 2022 Dec JAN Aug 22 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090122135945/http://community.seattletimes.nwsource.com:80/archive/?date=20020515&slug=wfriends Low-graphic or text Today's news index The Seattle Times Company NWjobs | NWautos | NWhomes | NWapartments | NWsource | Classifieds | seattletimes.com Search 34°F Our network sites seattletimes.com | Advanced Home Local Home Education Politics Obituaries Special reports Corrections Traffic Weather Nicole Brodeur Jerry Large Danny Westneat All columnists Nation/World Home Politics Business/Tech Home Biotech Boeing/Aerospace Microsoft NW companies Personal technology Real estate Stock market Events calendar Brier Dudley columns Brier Dudley Blog The Real Estate Deal Retail Report Microsoft Pri0 Sunday Buzz Sports Home High School Mariners Seahawks Sounders FC Storm Huskies Cougars College NBA Hockey Golf Olympics Snow sports Other sports Steve Kelley Jerry Brewer Sideline Chatter All columnists Entertainment Home Restaurants Movies Music/Nightlife The Arts Books Today's events Callboard Submit listings TV listings Comics/Games Horoscopes Lottery Living Home Food & Wine Home & Garden Pacific NW Magazine Health Parenting: Jan Faull All You Can Eat Wine Adviser: Paul Gregutt Travel Home Seattle guide Washington guide Oregon guide British Columbia guide Travel tools Travel Wise: Carol Pucci Rick Steves' Europe NW Traveler: Kristin Jackson Trail Mix: Ron Judd Opinion Home Letters to the Editor The Democracy Papers Ed Cetera Blog Shopping Jobs Search job listings Post a resume Career Center Post a job Autos Search auto listings Research Center Sell a vehicle Homes Search new developments Search all properties Sell a property Rentals Search all rentals Post a rental listing Classifieds Post a listing Buy ads Online ads Online text ads Newspaper ads Classified ads Quick links: Traffic | Movies | Restaurants | Today's events | Video | Photos | Blogs Contact us Wednesday, May 15, 2002 - Page updated at 12:00 AM E-mail article Print view Baby episode could make 'Friends' TV's top show By David Bauder The Associated Press NEW YORK — One character is unmarried and pregnant, the father her on-again, off-again lover. Another character — not the dad — awkwardly professes his love to the pregnant woman and is rebuffed. Sounds like the plot to a particularly steamy soap opera, the kind that's so over the top it provides inadvertent comedy. It's not, of course. It's Ross, Rachel and Joey, your "Friends," and they managed to pull off the convoluted story line with aplomb in the midst of the NBC series' most successful year ever. The eighth, and penultimate, season of "Friends" concludes tomorrow with the birth of Rachel's baby, an old-fashioned, "sweeps" month TV event. Producers have taken the predictable steps to keep plot twists a secret. They've distributed scripts that leave the ending out, and filmed the final few minutes on a closed set, without an audience. The birth episode will likely cement the sitcom's status as the most popular show on television for the 2001-02 season, its first time with that distinction. "Friends" has been running neck-and-neck with CBS' ascendant "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation" for the top spot. "It's funny. You're always told, 'don't mess with the franchise too much, don't change too much,' " said "Friends" executive producer David Crane. "Obviously, it was scary for us to introduce the idea that Joey might be interested in Rachel, let alone pregnant Rachel who's carrying Ross' baby," he said. "It's incredibly inappropriate, yet we knew it would be exciting." The show's producers usually outline an upcoming season early the previous summer, yet this story line wasn't set until halfway through the year, Crane said. Creators knew they didn't want Ross and Rachel to get together — at least not right away — and were looking for a romantic impediment. Then someone piped up at a writer's meeting: "What about Joey?" What about Joey? The cast, Crane said, was against it. They all want their characters to be likable, and were worried that people would resent Joey for going after a pregnant woman, or resent Rachel for rejecting him, or resent Ross for standing between the two of them. The rejection was handled quickly and seemed, up until the season's final episode, to have no lingering aftereffects. Crane and his partners will convene next month to talk about the ninth, and last, season of "Friends" with Rachel's baby a potential seventh cast member. The baby could be an important part of the story or could be like the children on "Everybody Loves Raymond," who are rarely seen and even less often heard. "We're going to have to play it by ear," Crane said. "Obviously, we don't want it to become a show about a baby. On the other hand, we don't want to pretend that there isn't one. The fortunate thing is that it's an infant, so you don't have to give it lines." Get home delivery today! Marketplace shopping Fashion Upcoming designer events at Nordstrom More Shopping events for Thursday, Jan. 22nd Lucky Brand Jeans Half-Off Sale Karan Dannenberg Winter Clearance Sale More Shopping Events editors' picks Ballard shopping Cake bakeries, specialty Independent bookstoresMore Shopping Guides Most read Most commented Most e-mailed Cosmetics giveaway begins at Nordstrom, Macy's Grenade launchers, machine guns, C-4, weapons cache stuns agents December's snow remedy wreaking havoc on cyclists Germany bans drug "Spice" Obama's whirlwind first day: economy, war and more State school chief: Time for WASL to go M's make trade, avoid arbitration with Erik Bedard, Aaron Heilman Farewell smiles, and hint of pain for Bush Man's alcohol-fueled attack on his door leads to arrest for pot possession Obama may need mulligan on oath Celebration over, Obama's work begins Wednesday 104 December's snow remedy wreaking havoc on cyclists 92 Did Huskies commit possible secondary violations? 87 Weapons cache stuns agents 86 State school chief: Time for WASL to go 82 Felon voting rights bill introduced today 60 Local officials ask Ore. AG to probe Portland Mayor Sam Adams 60 More on the violations --- UW to report one secondary violation 54 Viaduct's tunnel proposal depends on taxpayers who already said no 38 State's jobless rate jumps to 7.1 percent 37 Cosmetics giveaway begins at Nordstrom, Macy's Google gets you up close, and very personal, with art Sazerac is a Happy Hour pick Bellingham Catholic Church welcomes married priest State school chief: Time for WASL to go December's snow remedy wreaking havoc on cyclists Grenade launchers, machine guns, C-4, weapons cache stuns agents At last, "Lost" returns to ABC Issaquah schools send warning to parents after girl abducted Skillet sensations: Recipes inspired by our favorite kitchen tool Site map Our network sites seattletimes.com | Advanced The Seattle Times Company About the company Employment opportunities Seattle Times store Advertise with us Newspapers in Education Services Your account / Log in E-mail newsletters Contact us Feedback and questions Submit listings Send us news tips News Home Local Nation/World Business/Tech Entertainment Living Travel Sports Opinion Extras Marketplace Jobs Autos Homes Rentals Classifieds Shopping NWsource Personals Post an ad Getting Your Newspaper Home delivery Temporary stops Subscriber services Other editions News by e-mail Mobile RSS feeds e-Edition Low-graphic Twitter Privacy statement | Terms of service Copyright © 2009 The Seattle Times Company