Friends' Cast Bands Together To Demand a Salary Increase - The New York TimesSections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Arts Today’s Paper Arts|Friends' Cast Bands Together To Demand a Salary Increase https://www.nytimes.com/1996/07/16/arts/friends-cast-bands-together-to-demand-a-salary-increase.html What to Watch Winter TV Winter Movies Best Movies on Netflix Best of Disney+ Best of Amazon Prime Best of Hulu AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supported byContinue reading the main story Friends' Cast Bands Together To Demand a Salary Increase Read in app By Bill Carter July 16, 1996 See the article in its original context from July 16, 1996, Section C, Page 18Buy Reprints View on timesmachine TimesMachine is an exclusive benefit for home delivery and digital subscribers. About the Archive This is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them. Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions. The entire six-member cast of "Friends," the NBC series that is television's third-highest rated show, has decided to hold out for a salary increase from their production studio, Warner Brothers, executives familiar with the demands said yesterday. Executives from both NBC and the show's producer, Warner Brothers, responding to the news, first reported this week in Time magazine, said they had not yet been contacted officially by agents for the stars. But several confirmed the basic details of the magazine story. The stars -- David Schwimmer, Jennifer Aniston, Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow, Courteney Cox and Matt LeBlanc -- have demanded salary increases to about $100,000 each per episode, plus a percentage of the series' profits in syndication. They have threatened not to show up for the taping of the new season's shows, which begins next month. The salaries each made this year were not equal; some were in the $20,000 range per episode while others were considerably higher. About 22 episodes are made each season. Stars of hit shows often threaten to boycott their series in pursuit of higher salaries. What is unusual is this cast's effort to use its solidarity as leverage. Warner Brothers consciously built the group as an ensemble, originally allowing only full group interviews and pictures. But the studio has a history of hanging tough in the face of star demands. The reason the "Friends" stars are pushing for more money is the expectation, made public by Warner, that the show will make $4 million an episode when it goes into syndication in 1998. Warner put the show up for bidding this year, after less than two full years on the air. One NBC executive was critical of Warner Brothers for boasting about its syndication profits. If a studio is compelled to pay a star a huge salary, it frequently goes to the network to cover the cost. With no official demand on the table, NBC executives questioned why the united-front demands from the cast had been made public first. "It's a strange way to negotiate," said Don Ohlmeyer, the president of NBC's West Coast division. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Information Navigation © 2022 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Accessibility Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Policy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Canada International Help Subscriptions