Ensemble cast - WikipediaEnsemble cast From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Principal actors and performers In a dramatic production, an ensemble cast is one which is composed of multiple principal actors and performers who are typically assigned roughly equal amounts of screen time.[1][2] Contents 1 Structure 1.1 Cinema 1.2 Television 2 See also 3 References Structure[edit] In contrast to the popular model, which gives precedence to a sole protagonist, an ensemble cast leans more towards a sense of "collectivity and community".[3] Cinema[edit] Ensemble casts in film were introduced as early as September 1916, with D. W. Griffith's silent epic film Intolerance, featuring four separate though parallel plots.[4] The film follows the lives of several characters over hundreds of years, across different cultures and time periods.[5] The unification of different plot lines and character arcs is a key characteristic of ensemble casting in film; whether it's a location, event, or an overarching theme that ties the film and characters together.[4] Films that feature ensembles tend to emphasize the interconnectivity of the characters, even when the characters are strangers to one another.[6] The interconnectivity is often shown to the audience through examples of the "six degrees of separation" theory, and allows them to navigate through plot lines using cognitive mapping.[6] Examples of this method, where the six degrees of separation is evident in films with an ensemble cast, are in productions such as Love Actually, Crash, and Babel, which all have strong underlying themes interwoven within the plots that unify each film.[4] The Avengers, X-Men, and Justice League are three examples of ensemble casts in the superhero genre.[7] In The Avengers, there is no need for a single central protagonist as each character shares equal importance in the narrative, successfully balancing the ensemble cast.[8] Referential acting is a key factor in executing this balance, as ensemble cast members "play off each other rather than off reality".[3] Hollywood movies with ensemble casts tend to use numerous actors of high renown and/or prestige, instead of one or two "big stars" and a lesser-known supporting cast.[citation needed] Television[edit] Ensemble casting also became more popular in television series because it allows flexibility for writers to focus on different characters in different episodes. In addition, the departure of players is less disruptive than would be the case with a regularly structured cast. The television series The Golden Girls and Friends are archetypal examples of ensemble casts in American sitcoms. The science-fiction mystery drama Lost features an ensemble cast. Ensemble casts of 20 or more actors are common in soap operas, a genre that relies heavily on the character development of the ensemble.[9] The genre also requires continuous expansion of the cast as the series progresses, with soap operas such as General Hospital, Days of Our Lives and The Bold and the Beautiful staying on air for decades.[10] An example of a success for television in ensemble casting is the Emmy Award-winning HBO series Game of Thrones. The fantasy series features one of the largest ensemble casts on the small screen.[11] The series is notorious for major character deaths, resulting in constant changes within the ensemble.[12] See also[edit] All-star Polyphony (literature) Supergroup (music) References[edit] ^ Random House: ensemble acting Linked 2013-07-17 ^ Steven Withrow; Alexander Danner (2007). Character design for graphic novels. Focal Press/Rotovision. p. 112. ISBN 9780240809021. Retrieved 2009-09-05. ^ a b Mathijs, Ernest (March 1, 2011). "Referential acting and the ensemble cast". Screen. 52 (1): 89–96. doi:10.1093/screen/hjq063 – via academic.oup.com. ^ a b c "Ensemble Film, Postmodernity and Moral Mapping". www.screeningthepast.com. ^ "Intolerance (1916)". www.filmsite.org. ^ a b Silvey, Vivien (June 5, 2009). "Not Just Ensemble Films: Six Degrees, Webs, Multiplexity and the Rise of Network Narratives". FORUM: University of Edinburgh Postgraduate Journal of Culture & the Arts (8) – via www.forumjournal.org. ^ Child, Ben (April 23, 2012). "Avengers Assemble disarms the critics" – via www.theguardian.com. ^ "Joss Whedon talks in depth about the ensemble cast of 'The Avengers'". www.hypable.com. November 19, 2011. Retrieved 2020-06-15. ^ Ford, Sam (15 September 2008). "View of Soap operas and the history of fan discussion | Transformative Works and Cultures". Transformative Works and Cultures. 1. doi:10.3983/twc.2008.042. ^ "The Survival of Soap Opera (Part Two):The History and Legacy of Serialized Television". Henry Jenkins. ^ Campbell, Scott (June 10, 2014). "David Cameron: 'I'm a Game of Thrones fan'" – via www.telegraph.co.uk. ^ Brereton, Adam (June 12, 2013). "The Game of Thrones: Nobody wins, everybody dies". ABC Religion & Ethics. v t e Film crew (filmmaking) Above the line Actor Voice actor Leading actor Supporting actor Ensemble cast Character actor Bit actor Cameo actor Film director Screenwriter Film producer Executive producer Line producer Below the line Pre-production Unit production manager Production coordinator Production accountant Assistant director Script supervisor Script coordinator Casting director Production assistant Location manager Location scout Storyboard Storyboard artist Production design Production designer Art director Costume designer Greensman Hairdresser Make-up artist Set decorator Set dresser Property master / mistress ("props") Weapons master Visual arts Matte painter Illustrator Scenic design Photography Cinematographer / Director of photography Camera operator Focus puller Clapper loader Steadicam Digital imaging technician Second unit Gaffer Best boy (electrical) Lighting technician Key grip Best boy (grip) Grip Dolly grip Sound Director of audiography Production sound mixer Boom operator Utility sound technician Dialogue editor Re-recording mixer Foley artist Dubbing ADR Subtitles Composer Music supervisor Music editor Orchestrator Special effects Special effects supervisor Visual effects supervisor Animation Animator Visual effects Modeling Rigging Layout artist Talent Acting coach Body double Dialect coach Movement director Choreographer Extra Talent agent Stand-in Acting instructor Stage combat Stunt double Stunt performer Under-five Post-production Film editor Sound editor Colorist Animator Technical director Visual effects VFX creative director Visual effects editor Compositor Computer-generated imagery Rendering Other Unit still photographer Portal: Film Authority control: National libraries Germany Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ensemble_cast&oldid=1053770306" Categories: Film and video terminology Stage terminology Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2021 Articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català Deutsch Español فارسی Français Frysk 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Nederlands 日本語 Plattdüütsch Português کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 5 November 2021, at 22:59 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement