Star Channel (Greek TV channel) - WikipediaStar Channel (Greek TV channel) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Not to be confused with Star World. For other uses, see Star Channel. This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Star Channel" Greek TV channel – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Star Channel Country Greece Broadcast area National Programming Language(s) Greek Picture format 1080i HDTV (downscaled to 16:9 576i for the SDTV feed) Ownership Owner New Television S.A. (Giannis Vardinogiannis) Sister channels Omega TV Cyprus History Launched 4 December 1993 Former names Channel 29 (1990-1993) Links Website STAR CHANNEL Availability Terrestrial Digea All over Greece at local frequencies Star Channel is a Greek free-to-air television channel that broadcasts a mix of foreign and Greek shows. It was launched in December 1993 and is owned by New Television S.A. Star Channel is known in Greece mostly for its programming style, both in terms of live shows and news content, with an increased focus on lifestyle, showbiz, gossip, and fashion news, and on "comedic" presentation.[not verified in body] In 2013, Star started combining information with entertainment, resulting in the channel's shift to a more serious tone. Star Channel generated €64 million in net profit in 2014 which represents a 32.2% increase from the previous year.[not verified in body] Contents 1 History 2 Programming 3 Star International 4 External links History[edit] Star Channel was launched on 4 December 1993 to compete with Mega, ANT1, Alpha TV and ERT Channels. It began broadcasting children's programs as well as foreign series. In 1994 – Star Channel began to exchange family/children's programs from Alpha, then known as Skai (Greek spelling of Sky) with Star's children's programming. Star Channel made its international debut in 2005, joining the UBI World TV platform, which made Star available to viewers in Australia as well as in Asia and Africa. UBI World TV launched in New Zealand in 2008 making Star International available there. In March 2011, Star Channel began showing some of its programs in 16:9 – mostly television series and films – and as of April, it switched to 16:9 for all its programming, including its own shows and news broadcasts. In March 2016, Star Channel started its pilot broadcast of STAR HD (1080i) through Digea in Attica and Central Macedonia on February 27, 2016. Programming[edit] Star Channel airs 24/7 news, shows and reality shows, foreign series and many movies with premieres. The network also airs a seven-hour weekend morning animation block called "Starland". Star International[edit] Star International was launched in November 2005 and airs the "best of" Star Channel programming to Greeks in the Asia Pacific region, Africa and North America. Star International is currently available to viewers in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Asia through TV Plus; it operates on a 24-hour schedule. In October 2009, Star International officially launched in North America, available exclusively on RCN Cable in the United States but in June 2010, RCN Cable dropped the channel due to the low number of subscriptions. In May 2011, Star International re-launched in the US and was made available via satellite on the Home2US platform. In late 2012, Home2US ceased operations. The channel is currently available in North America through IPTV provider Ellas TV. On September 23, 2014, Star International launched in Canada via Bell Fibe TV. On December 10, 2020, Star International launched on Bell Satellite TV, making the channel available across Canada. External links[edit] Official website v t e Television in Greece Public ERT1 ERT2 ERT3 ERT News Vouli Tileorasi Private (SD / HD) Alpha ANT1 Makedonia TV Mega Open Skai Star International free-to-air BBC World News RIK Sat TV5Monde Europe Premium channels Animal Planet Boomerang Cosmote Cinema Cosmote History Cosmote Sport Deutsche Welle Discovery Channel Disney Channel Disney Junior FOX HD FOX Life HD MAD Greekz MAD Viral National Geographic Nova Cinema HD Novalife HD Nova Sports One Channel Sirina TV Village Cinema HD DVB-T providers Digea DVB-S providers Nova Cosmote TV IPTV providers Cosmote TV Vodafone TV WIND Vision Defunct providers Alpha Digital On Telecoms International satellite 4E Alpha Sat ANT1 Europe ANT1 Pacific ANT1 Satellite ERT World Greek Cinema MAD World New Greek TV RIK Sat SportPlus TV Star International Defunct channels 902 AFIS Alter Cine+/Sport+ Cine+/Studio+ Dimosia Tileorasi ERT Sports NERIT Prisma+ Sport+/Info+ Tempo TV Lists Television awards Television channels Television series Authority control ISNI 1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Star_Channel_(Greek_TV_channel)&oldid=1071646169" Categories: Television networks in Greece Greek-language television stations Television channels and stations established in 1993 1993 establishments in Greece Television channels in Greece Hidden categories: Articles lacking sources from August 2014 All articles lacking sources Use dmy dates from July 2020 Articles using infobox television channel All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2014 Articles with ISNI identifiers Television channel articles with incorrect naming style Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Ελληνικά Español Français Italiano Português Suomi Svenska Edit links This page was last edited on 13 February 2022, at 17:06 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement