USATODAY.com - Kudrow back in the fold40 captures 24 Jan 2009 - 30 Aug 2021 Dec JAN Sep 24 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090124162829/http://www.usatoday.com:80/life/people/2005-06-02-kudrow_x.htm Classifieds: | | | Home News Travel Money Sports Life Tech Weather Movies Movies home Box office report DVD releases Music Music home Top albums Top singles Listen Up Music reviews TV TV home TV listings Nielsen ratings Reality Check Critic's Corner 'Idol' Chatter Books Books home Top 150 books Columnists Columnists home Robert Bianco Peter Johnson Whitney Matheson Alison Maxwell Craig Wilson Gaming Gaming home Arcade Crosswords Sudoku More Life People Media Mix Pop Candy Photo archive Talk Today Marketplace Real estate Arcade Music Tickets Shopping International Business Index Newspaper Classifieds Posted 6/2/2005 9:30 PM Today's Top Life Stories • Will Howard K. Stern sue media for overdose implications? - 4:36 PM • Don Imus: 'I did a bad thing, but I'm a good person' - 4:28 PM • Critics demand Imus be fired for Rutgers remark - 4:26 PM • 'B.C.' cartoonist Johnny Hart dies at 76 - 11:49 AM • Couric says the job takes 'patience' - 10:57 PM • Add USATODAY.com RSS feeds What's this? Click here to shop! What are you shopping for? • Browse over 8 million products • Clothing & Jewelry • Computers & Electronics • Home & Garden • Kids & Family Kudrow back in the fold By William Keck, USA TODAY HOLLYWOOD — Lisa Kudrow is being whisked across the Paramount lot in a golf cart with four all-new TV friends. But unlike Kudrow's previous Central Perk posse, this gang's not headed to a trendy coffeehouse. Nor will they be dancing fully clothed in a fountain. Ordinary people: Lisa Kudrow and her husband, Michel Stern, a real estate investor, just celebrated their 10-year anniversary. Getty Images And the most jarring indicator that these five aren't true Friends: The four newbies — all in their teens or early 20s — are teasing and gossiping among themselves, all but ignoring our familiar 41-year-old, who's just sort of sitting awkwardly by herself. Although this is all happening off-camera, the scenario mirrors the central joke behind The Comeback, an HBO comedy series (premiering Sunday, 9:30 p.m. ET/PT) created, written and executive-produced by Kudrow, who also stars as Valerie Cherish. Valerie's a washed-up, egocentric TV star who lands a comeback role playing Aunt Sassy, den mother to those aforementioned energetic youths in a pathetic new sitcom called Room & Bored. Further complicating matters is a TV crew documenting Valerie's every move for a separate reality show, also titled The Comeback. (Related review: Come back, Lisa Kudrow) In her trailer, parked outside the old Desilu production office, Kudrow says she's not at all upset to be left out of her junior castmates' juvenile fraternization. It wasn't much different on the Friends set, where she was the slightly older, more mature member of the sextet. "I was never like that," she says of such frivolity. "I'm not a fan of practical jokes or roughhousing." But neither was Kudrow ever alienated from NBC's famously tight-knit cast, whom she now sees only rarely. She can't recall a single awkward cast photo shoot during Friends' entire 10-year run, unlike Desperate Housewives' recent Vanity Fair debacle. (In an upcoming Comeback, Valerie is positioned in the distant background of a Room & Bored cast shot.) "We were all so confident that it was an ensemble," Kudrow says. "I don't ever remember feeling jealous of anyone or ever hearing that anyone was ever jealous of the other five. If one year they put Courteney (Cox) and Matthew (Perry) in the middle because there was a big Monica/Chandler story, that was fine. And no one would argue if Ross (David Schwimmer) and Rachel (Jennifer Aniston) were in the middle. We were always moved around in different gallery photos, and we would choose the ones we looked best in." Probably the biggest difference between Kudrow and the fame-hungry Valerie is how both live their off-camera lives. While Valerie welcomes cameras into her home (which doubles as a shrine to herself), the highly private Kudrow lives a very non-Hollywood existence "not for public consumption" in a house within a 4-mile radius of her parents, brother and sister. Being married to a man she calls "a regular person" (real estate investor Michel Stern), unlike her paparazzi-pursued Friends Mrs. David Arquette (Cox) and the nearly former Mrs. Brad Pitt (Aniston), has helped Kudrow maintain that low profile. And it was Kudrow who insisted her husband move all of her awards (from the Emmys, SAG, People's Choice, American Comedy and New York Film Critics Circle), along with other Kudrow-bilia out of their living room and into her office. "It's not me," explains Kudrow, who says she holds firm to maintaining a "sense of decorum and propriety and priority. When people become successful, they feel entitled, and that stuff sometimes starts to fall away." Therein lies the only real drawback to returning to TV just a year after Friends' end: the loss of time she had intended to finally spend with her husband and their 7-year-old son, Julian. This particular day is Kudrow's 10-year wedding anniversary, and a huge bouquet of flowers from Stern sits in her trailer. The couple will have to wait until the weekend to celebrate their milestone. Earlier in the day, Stern represented both parents when Julian performed at school. "Julian sang I Won't Grow Up," Kudrow sighs. "Missing that is the part that's not so good." Newspaper Home Delivery - Subscribe Today USATODAY.com partners: USA WEEKEND Sports Weekly Education Space.com Home Travel News Money Sports Life Tech Weather Resources: Mobile news Site map FAQ Contact us E-mail news Jobs with us Internships Terms of service Privacy policy/Your California Privacy Right Advertise Press Room Media Lounge Electronic print edition Reprints and Permissions Add USATODAY.com RSS feeds The Nation's Homepage Copyright 2008 USA TODAY, a division of Gannett Co. Inc.