'Friends' Reunion Special in the Works at HBO Max (Exclusive) | Hollywood Reporter188 captures 13 Nov 2019 - 19 Feb 2022 Oct NOV Dec 15 2018 2019 2020 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Archive Team Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites). To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20191115203707/https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/live-feed/friends-reunion-special-works-at-hbo-max-1254331 The Hollywood Reporter Movies TV Business Style Tech Awards Culture Politics Video Sites Heat Vision Live Feed Esq The Race Behind the Screen Bastard Machine Rambling Reporter The Fien Print Subscribe Newsletters Site Tools Log in Daily Edition Game of Thrones Pilots Guide Premieres Renewal Scorecard TV's Top 5 Series Regular Grey's TWD November 12, 2019 3:45pm PT by Lesley Goldberg 'Friends' Reunion Special in the Works at HBO Max (Exclusive) Courtesy of Fathomevents.com 'Friends' Sources tell The Hollywood Reporter that a deal is far from done but the full cast and creators would participate. Oh. My. God. As mega-hit Friends continues to celebrate its 25th anniversary, sources tell The Hollywood Reporter that the six core stars and the creators of the NBC comedy from Warner Bros. TV are in talks to reunite on HBO Max. Talks are currently underway for an unscripted reunion special that would feature Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer, as well as series creators David Crane and Marta Kauffman. Sources caution that a deal is far from done and agreements with cast and creatives still need to be hammered out. When and if deals are completed, the challenge then becomes sorting out everyone's schedules. Of course, the talks could fizzle and the whole concept could fall apart. HBO Max and producers WBTV declined comment. News of a reunion special arrives as Friends has found new audiences at its streaming home on Netflix. The series is officially leaving the streamer at year's end and will make its debut on WarnerMedia-backed HBO Max when that $15 monthly subscription platform launches at a date to be determined. Sources say WarnerMedia paid $85 million per year for five years ($425 million) to reclaim streaming rights to Friends for its own platform. (Netflix, for its part, paid $80 million to $100 million to keep Friends on its service for 2019 and was ultimately outbid by WarnerMedia.) Sources note that WarnerMedia Entertainment and direct-to-consumer chairman Bob Greenblatt has been the driving force pushing for the Friends reunion, which would pair well with HBO Max's debut and the comedy's new streaming home. Sources say that the cast is willing to do it is an accomplishment in and of itself. The cast and creators, for their part, have remained steadfast over the years since the series wrapped its 10-season run that they would not do any sort of scripted revival. NBC staged a mini-Friends reunion in 2016 as part of a special honoring legendary director and producer James Burrows. Five of the six stars — save for Perry — participated in the look back that also featured the casts of Will & Grace, Cheers and The Big Bang Theory. For her part, Aniston on Oct. 27 shot down word of a Friends reboot (with a flat-out "no") but did tell daytime host Ellen DeGeneres, "We would love for there to be something, but we don't know what that something is. So we're just trying. We're working on something." Aniston returned to television with the Nov. 1 premiere of Apple TV+'s The Morning Show. The drama marks her first TV series regular role since she wrapped Friends. (On The Morning Show, Aniston stars opposite her Friends onscreen sister, Reese Witherspoon.) The actress also recently joined Instagram by posting a recent photo of her reuniting with her Friends co-stars. Friends producer Warner Bros. TV has been busy with a series of events to celebrate the show's 25th anniversary this year, with replica couches placed at landmarks across the globe, pop-ups of Central Perk, special theatrical screenings of beloved episodes and more. A Friends reunion would immediately provide the kind of must-see TV that an upstart streaming service like HBO Max would want. Disney, for example, on Tuesday launched its streaming service with its highly anticipated Star Wars scripted drama The Mandalorian. HBO Max Lesley Goldberg Lesley.Goldberg@THR.com Snoodit TV Scorecards TV Premiere Dates 2019: The Complete Guide TV Pilots 2019: The Complete Guide Broadcast TV Scorecard 2019: Complete Guide to What's New, Renewed and Canceled The Hollywood Reporter © 2019 The Hollywood Reporter All rights reserved. The Hollywood Reporter, LLC is a subsidiary of Prometheus Global Media, LLC. Terms of Use | Privacy | Sitemap | About Our Ads About Us Daily Edition Subscribe Subscriber Services Back Issues Advertising Contact Us Tipline Careers Industry Jobs Follow Us On Twitter Find Us On Facebook Watch Us On Youtube Our affiliate publications Billboard Vibe Spin Stereogum