TV Reviews :  NBC's Strongest Evening of the Week Has Its Weak Spot - latimes40 captures 15 Jul 2012 - 12 Feb 2022 Jan APR Jun 02 2014 2015 2017 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150402092239/http://articles.latimes.com/1994-09-22/entertainment/ca-41409_1_martin-short-show Advertisement YOU ARE HERE: LAT Home→Collections TV Reviews : NBC's Strongest Evening of the Week Has Its Weak Spot September 22, 1994|HOWARD ROSENBERG | TIMES TELEVISION CRITIC In a single evening, NBC goes from one extreme to the other. NBC has flat-out the best comedy series of the new season in "Friends" and flat-out one of the worst in "Madman of the People." Each premieres tonight in a lineup that, despite "Madman," promises to be the network's strongest of the week. Meanwhile, NBC's "Martin Short Show," whose second episode aired Tuesday, is flat-out flat, as well as baffling and disappointing. The sexy, urbane "Friends"--from Marta Kauffman, David Crane and Kevin Bright, the people responsible for the HBO super-comedy "Dream On"--starts fairly strongly tonight, improves next Thursday and in week three gets on a grand, hilarious, rip-roaring roll. It's the perfect series to bridge "Mad About You" and "Seinfeld." Its premiere has the burden of sorting out the major characters in this communal comedy, six singles in the their 20s who spend much of their time slouching around--in their spacious pad and in the casual cafe/coffee house where some of them work--talking about being single. It sounds vacuous, and it is, sort of, but wittily vacuous, with crisply written dialogue adroitly executed by the show's strong ensemble cast: Courteney Cox, David Schwimmer, Jennifer Aniston, Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow and Matt LeBlanc. "I can hardly stop smiling," one roomie says. "I can see that," another responds. "It looks like you slept with a hanger in your mouth." If there is a hub character here, it is Cox's Monica, an assistant chef whose passive brother (Schwimmer) moves in with the group after his wife leaves him for a woman. All of the characters are likable and funny, though. Given that the cafe and apartment look somewhat alike--and that the schmoozing and blizzard of acerbic one-liners occur in both places--juxtaposing these locales gets confusing. And the notion that all of these attractive people would remain platonic while flopping around together is a bit far-fetched. Yet these are nit-picks, and "Friends" has so many good moves that there's really nothing to dislike. It's all so light and frothy that after each episode you may be hard-pressed to recall precisely what went on, except that you laughed a lot. And look, no hanger. * "Madman of the People" is something you'd like to mothball and hang in a vault indefinitely. It has a great time slot following the enormous hit "Seinfeld," but little wit or intelligence with which to fill it. Instead, it's one of the fall season's least likable new comedies, squandering Dabney Coleman in a near humorless half hour about an abrasive hotshot magazine columnist who finds himself working for his daughter when she becomes publisher. He doesn't like it. Coleman has made a living being snide and insulting for laughs. A master at it, he has played obnoxious TV characters before, but usually in comedies ("Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman," "Buffalo Bill" and "The 'Slap' Maxwell Story") that had the redeeming virtue of being funny. Here, as star columnist Jack Buckner--who lives for ticking people off in print and in person--he is obnoxious minus any of the good stuff, a cynical iconoclast whose caustic digs are nasty without being comical or even clever. "Madman of the People" is black comedy sans the comedy. Right away tonight, Jack clashes with his daughter, Meg (Cynthia Gibb), over matters ranging from trivial to serious, including her decision to oust one of his best friends, the magazine's inept music critic. The dismissal scene irritatingly careens over the top before weakly concluding with a stab at gooey sentiment. In fact, it's a tossup which is the more grating locale: the magazine office or the Buckner home, which Jack shares with his inhumanly patient wife, Delia (Concetta Tomei), and their 24-year-old ne'er-do-well son, Dylan (John Ales). A second daughter and her schnook of a husband also surface tonight. Things get worse. As bad as the premiere is, it is absolutely brilliant compared to the second episode, which finds Jack accused by his family and angry neighbors of killing a robin whose chirping kept him awake at night. A withering cross-fire of dead animal and cheap sex jokes ensues, leading to another maudlin finale--prompting you to conclude that euthanasia would be best for the entire series. "We can make this work," Meg assures her father. Unlikely. With "Seinfeld" as a brawny lead-in, "Madman of the People" may thrive in the ratings, but if episodes 1 and 2 are representative, it will never work. * The only thing that worked in last Thursday's debut of "The Martin Short Show" was a "Dave" parody starring Short's marvelous mega-nerd character, pointy haired Ed Grimley. Unfortunately, the rest of the show might have been written by Grimley, I must say. The second episode on Tuesday--with Steve Martin playing himself, but as an egomaniacal sex addict--was better, yet still less than you'd expect from a half hour deploying Martin and Short, two of the best physical comics in the universe, on the same stage. 1 | 2 | Next FEATURED Infiltrating Southern California biker gangs Gang tattoo leads to a murder conviction How not to say the wrong thing MORE: Seizure Led to FloJo's Death His 104 scores make his case Brutal Murder by Teen-Age Girls Adds to Britons' Shock Comaneci Confirms Suicide Attempt, Magazine Says Advertisement FROM THE ARCHIVES Martin Short Hits His Talk-Show Stride as the Bumbling Jiminy Glick June 27, 2001 'Martin Short' a Shadow of His Former Self September 17, 1999 It's the Screen That Got Small : Do all those cracks about TV bother Gene Wilder, Dudley Moore and Martin Short? Well, now that you ask, let them explain it all to you. September 18, 1994 MOVIE REVIEW : 'Father of the Bride': Wedding Bell Blues for Martin December 20, 1991 Copyright 2015 Los Angeles Times Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Index by Date | Index by Keyword