Multiple-camera setup - WikipediaMultiple-camera setup From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Method of film making and video production This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Multiple-camera setup" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Diagram showing a multicam setup The multiple-camera setup, multiple-camera mode of production, multi-camera or simply multicam is a method of filmmaking and video production. Several cameras—either film or professional video cameras—are employed on the set and simultaneously record or broadcast a scene. It is often contrasted with a single-camera setup, which uses one camera. Contents 1 Description 2 Film 3 Television 4 History and use 4.1 United States 4.2 United Kingdom 5 See also 6 References Description[edit] Generally, the two outer cameras shoot close-up shots or "crosses" of the two most active characters on the set at any given time, while the central camera or cameras shoot a wider master shot to capture the overall action and establish the geography of the room.[1] In this way, multiple shots are obtained in a single take without having to start and stop the action. This is more efficient for programs that are to be shown a short time after being shot as it reduces the time spent in film or video editing. It is also a virtual necessity for regular, high-output shows like daily soap operas. Apart from saving editing time, scenes may be shot far more quickly as there is no need for re-lighting and the set-up of alternative camera angles for the scene to be shot again from the different angle. It also reduces the complexity of tracking continuity issues that crop up when the scene is reshot from the different angles. Drawbacks include a less optimized lighting setup that needs to provide a compromise for all camera angles and less flexibility in putting the necessary equipment on scene, such as microphone booms and lighting rigs. These can be efficiently hidden from just one camera but can be more complicated to set up and their placement may be inferior in a multiple-camera setup. Another drawback is in the usage of recording capacity, as a four-camera setup may use (depending on the cameras involved) up to four times as much film (or digital storage space) per take compared with a single-camera setup. A multiple-camera setup will require all cameras to be synchronous to assist with editing and to avoid cameras running at different scan rates, with the primary methods being SMPTE timecode and Genlock.[2] Film[edit] Most films use a single-camera setup,[3] but in recent decades larger films have begun to use more than one camera on set, usually with two cameras simultaneously filming the same setup. However, this is not a true multiple-camera setup in the television sense. Some films will run multiple cameras, perhaps four or five, for large, expensive and difficult-to-repeat special effects shots, such as large explosions. Again, this is not a true multiple-camera setup in the television sense as the resultant footage will not always be arranged sequentially in editing, and multiple shots of the same explosion may be repeated in the final film—either for artistic effect or because the different shots can appear to show different explosions since they are taken from different angles.[clarification needed] Television[edit] Live news, such as Al Jazeera, will use multiple cameras for their broadcasts. Multiple-camera setups are an essential part of live television.[4] The multiple-camera method gives the director less control over each shot but is faster and less expensive than a single-camera setup. In television, multiple-camera is commonly used for light entertainment, sports events, news, soap operas, talk shows, game shows, variety shows, and some sitcoms, especially ones filmed before a live studio audience. Multiple cameras can take different shots of a live situation as the action unfolds chronologically and is suitable for shows which require a live audience. For this reason, multiple camera productions can be filmed or taped much faster than single camera. Single-camera productions are shot in takes and various setups with components of the action repeated several times and out of sequence; the action is not enacted chronologically so is unsuitable for viewing by a live audience. In multiple-camera television, the director creates a line cut by instructing the technical director (vision mixer in UK terminology) to switch between the feeds from the individual cameras. This is either transmitted live, or recorded. In the case of sitcoms with studio audiences, this line cut is typically displayed to them on studio monitors. The line cut might be refined later in editing, as often the output from all cameras is recorded, both separately (a technique known as "ISO" recording). The camera currently being recorded to the line cut is indicated by a tally light controlled by a camera control unit (CCU) on the camera as a reference both for the talent and the camera operators, and an additional tally light may be used to indicate to the camera operator that they are being ISO recorded. A sitcom shot with a multiple-camera setup will require a different form of script to a single-camera setup.[5] History and use[edit] The use of multiple film cameras dates back to the development of narrative silent films, with the earliest (or at least earliest known) example being the first Russian feature film Defence of Sevastopol (1911), written and directed by Vasily Goncharov and Aleksandr Khanzhonkov.[6] When sound came into the picture multiple cameras were used to film multiple sets at a single time. Early sound was recorded onto wax discs that could not be edited. The use of multiple video cameras to cover a scene goes back to the earliest days of television; three cameras were used to broadcast The Queen's Messenger in 1928, the first drama performed for television.[7] The first drama performed for British television was Pirandello’s play The Man With the Flower in His Mouth in 1930, using a single camera.[8] The BBC routinely used multiple cameras for their live television shows from 1936 onward.[9][10][11] United States[edit] Before the pre-recorded continuing series became the dominant dramatic form on American television, the earliest anthology programs (see the Golden Age of Television) utilized multiple camera methods.[citation needed] Although it is often claimed that the multiple-camera setup was pioneered for television by Desi Arnaz and cinematographer Karl Freund on I Love Lucy in 1951, other filmed television shows had already used it, including the CBS comedy The Amos 'n Andy Show, which was filmed at the Hal Roach Studios and was on the air four months earlier. The technique was developed for television by Hollywood short-subject veteran Jerry Fairbanks, assisted by producer-director Frank Telford, and first seen on the anthology series The Silver Theater, another CBS program, in February 1950.[12] Desilu's innovation was to use 35mm film instead of 16mm and to film with a multiple-camera setup before a live studio audience. In the late 1970s, Garry Marshall was credited with adding the fourth camera (known then as the "X" Camera, and occasionally today known as the "D" Camera) to the multi-camera set-up for his series Mork & Mindy. Actor Robin Williams could not stay on his marks due to his physically active improvisations during shooting, so Marshall had them add the fourth camera just to stay on Williams so they would have more than just the master shot of the actor.[13][14] Soon after, many productions followed suit and now having four cameras (A, B, C and X/D) is the norm for multi-camera situation comedies.[citation needed] Sitcoms shot with the multiple camera setup include nearly all of Lucille Ball's TV series, as well as Mary Kay and Johnny, The Dick Van Dyke Show, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, All in the Family, Three's Company, Cheers, The Cosby Show, Full House, Seinfeld, Family Matters, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, Mad About You, Friends, The Drew Carey Show, Frasier, Will & Grace, Everybody Loves Raymond, The King of Queens, Two and a Half Men, The Big Bang Theory, Mike & Molly, Last Man Standing, Mom, 2 Broke Girls, The Odd Couple, One Day at a Time, Man with a Plan, Carol's Second Act, and Bob Hearts Abishola. Many American sitcoms from the 1950s to the 1970s were shot using the single camera method, including The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet, Leave It to Beaver, The Andy Griffith Show, The Addams Family, The Munsters, Get Smart, Bewitched, I Dream of Jeannie, Gilligan's Island, Hogan's Heroes, and The Brady Bunch. The earliest seasons of Happy Days were filmed using a single-camera setup before the series transitioned to a multi-camera setup (which also occurred alongside its increase in popularity). These did not have a live studio audience and by being shot single-camera, tightly edited sequences could be created, along with multiple locations, and visual effects such as magical appearances and disappearances. Multiple-camera sitcoms were more simplified but have been compared to theatre work due to its similar set-up and use of theatre-experienced actors and crew members. While the multiple-camera format dominated US sitcom production in the 1970s and 1980s,[citation needed] there has been a recent revival of the single-camera format with programs such as Malcolm in the Middle (2000–2006), Scrubs (2001–2010), Entourage (2004–2011), The Office (2005–2013), My Name Is Earl (2005–2009), Everybody Hates Chris (2005–2009), It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia (2005–present), 30 Rock (2006–2013), Glee (2009–2015), Modern Family (2009–2020), The Middle (2009–2018), Community (2009–2015), Parks and Recreation (2009–2015), Raising Hope (2010–2014), Louie (2010–2015), The Goldbergs (2013-present), Black-ish (2014-present), Superstore (2015–2021), Silicon Valley (2014-2019), Schitt's Creek (Canada) (2015-2020), American Housewife (2016–present), and Young Sheldon (2017–present). United Kingdom[edit] The majority of British sitcoms and dramas from the 1950s to the early 1990s were made using a multi-camera format.[15] Unlike the United States, the development of completed filmed programming, using the single camera method, was limited for several decades.[citation needed] Instead, a "hybrid" form emerged using (single camera) filmed inserts, generally location work, which were mixed with interior scenes shot in the multi-camera electronic studio. It was the most common type of domestic production screened by the BBC and ITV. However, as technology developed, some drama productions were mounted on location using multiple electronic cameras. Many all-action 1970s programmes, such as The Sweeney and The Professionals were shot using the single camera method on 16mm film. Meanwhile, by the early 1980s the most highly budgeted and prestigious television productions, like Brideshead Revisited (1981), had begun to use film exclusively. By the later 1990s, soap operas were left as the only TV drama being made in the UK using multiple cameras.[citation needed] Television prime-time dramas are usually shot using a single-camera setup. See also[edit] 3D reconstruction from multiple images Camera rig Circle-Vision 360° Light stage is a device used for capturing the shape, texture, and reflectance of a target, usually for the purposes of virtual cinematography. Light stages are usually a combination of and multiple camera and structured light techniques, and additionally, polarizers are included to find the subsurface scattering component of the target's skin. Omnidirectional camera Single-camera setup References[edit] ^ Scott Schaefermeyer (25 July 2012). Digital Video BASICS. Cengage Learning. pp. 189–. ISBN 978-1-133-41664-7. ^ Norman Medoff; Edward J. Fink (10 September 2012). Portable Video: ENG & EFP. CRC Press. pp. 65–. ISBN 978-1-136-04770-1. ^ Battaglio, Stephen (July 8, 2001). "TELEVISION/RADIO; Networks Rediscover the Single-Camera Sitcom". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved May 12, 2017. ^ Andrew Utterback (25 September 2015). Studio Television Production and Directing: Concepts, Equipment, and Procedures. CRC Press. pp. 163–. ISBN 978-1-317-68033-8. ^ Miyamoto, Ken (21 June 2016). "Single-Camera vs. Multi-Camera TV Sitcom Scripts: What's the Difference?". ScreenCraft. Retrieved 13 June 2020. ^ "В Салюте в День российского кино прошел показ немого фильма "Оборона Севастополя" под живое музыкальное сопровождение - Фильмы - КультурМультур". kulturmultur.com (in Russian). Retrieved 2017-12-10. ^ "Queen's Messenger". Early Television Foundation and Museum. Retrieved 13 June 2020. ^ Richard G Elen. "Baird versus the BBC". Baird: The Birth of Television. Transdiffusion. Archived from the original on 2010-04-17. ^ "Alexandra Palace". www.earlytelevision.org. Retrieved 13 June 2020. ^ "The Birth of Live Entertainment and Music on Television, November 6, 1936". History TV: The Restelli Collection. Retrieved 13 June 2020. ^ "Telecasting a Play", New York Times, March 10, 1940, p. 163. ^ "Flight to the West?" Time, March 6, 1950. ^ Anders, Charlie Jane (December 2, 2015). "Mork and Mindy Was One of the Most Unlikely Miracles in the History of Television". Gizmodo. Retrieved May 12, 2017. ^ Kantor, Michael; Maslon, Laurence (2008). Make 'Em Laugh: The Funny Business of America. Grand Central Publishing. p. 340. ISBN 978-0-446-55575-3. ^ Walker, Tim (February 2, 2011). "The return of the sitcom". The Independent. Retrieved May 12, 2017. v t e Cinematic techniques Lighting Background Cameo Fill Flood High-key Key Lens flare Low-key Mood Rembrandt Stage Soft Sound Diegetic Non-diegetic Narration Film score Sound effects Shooting Field size Wide / Long / Full American Medium Close-up Italian Two shot Camera placement Perspective Over-the-shoulder Point-of-view (POV) Reverse Trunk Single / multiple-camera setup Camera angle Tilt Aerial High-angle Bird's-eye Crane shot Jib / boom shot Low-angle Worm's-eye view Dutch angle Camera movement Unchained camera technique Tilting Panning Whip pan Hand-held Shaky Tracking Dolly Steadicam SnorriCam Walk and talk Follow Dolly zoom Lens effects Focus Racking Depth of field Shallow Deep Zooming Other techniques Establishing shot Master shot B-roll Freeze-frame shot Long take One-shot Insert v t e Special effects Practical Aerial rigging (wire-flying) Air bladder effect Animatronics Bullet hit squib Costumed character Creature suit Dead-character costume Kitbashing Miniature effect (hanging) Prosthetic makeup Puppetry Pyrotechnics Matte painting Sugar glass Theatrical blood In-camera Bipacks Bullet time Dolly zoom Forced perspective Front projection Infrared photography Lens flares Lighting effects Multiple exposure Filtration Rear projection Reverse motion Schüfftan process Shutter effects Slit-scan Tilted plane focus Time-lapse Fast motion Slow motion Speed ramping Visual Chroma key Compositing (digital) Computer-generated imagery Go motion Introvision Match moving Optical printing Smallgantics Split screen Stop motion v t e Television production Main / general Audience Broadcast network History of television Television crew Television show Television studio Places Central apparatus room Changing room Master control room Network operations center Production control room Stage (theatre) Transmission control room Profiles Celebrity Director of network programming Host News presenter Sports commentator News director Showrunner Pre-production Casting director Costume designer TV director Assistant director Location manager Make-up artist Production designer Researcher Set designer TV producer Television program creator Executive producer Line producer Production manager Writer Head writer Screenwriter Script editor Story editor Production Audio engineer Boom operator Camera operator Cinematographer Videographer Character generator (CG) operator Studio floor manager Graphics coordinator Stage manager gaffer grip Key grip Dolly grip Unit production manager Production assistant Gofer Stunt coordinator Technical director Television director Broadcast engineering Technical director Post-production Sound editor Foley artist Composer Colorist Editor Publicist Visual effects artist Types, formats and genres Beauty pageant Broadcasting of sports events TV commercials Event television Game show Live television Variety show Police crime drama Reality television Television film Documentary film Mockumentary Television show Television special Series Animated series Limited-run series Miniseries Procedural drama Serial Sitcom Soap opera Talk show Late-night talk show News Breaking news Debate show News broadcasting Political commentary Traffic reports Weather forecasts Valuation Audience measurement List of television awards Television content rating system Television criticism Technical Broadcast reference monitor Character generator Digital on-screen graphic Mixing console Microphones Multiple-camera setup Outside broadcasting Production truck Professional video camera Stage lighting Lighting control console Vision mixer Issues Agenda-setting Censorship Concentration of media ownership Counterculture Freedom of speech Freedom of the press Influence of mass media Media activism Media bias Media manipulation Public opinion Regulation Broadcast law Bleep censor Communications law Entertainment law Fairness Doctrine Media policy Media reform Media regulation Pixelization Theory Media culture Media studies Television studies Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Multiple-camera_setup&oldid=1070364568" Categories: Cinematic techniques Hidden categories: CS1 Russian-language sources (ru) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from June 2020 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles needing clarification from April 2014 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2013 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views View Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català Deutsch Español فارسی עברית Nederlands Português Русский Simple English தமிழ் Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 7 February 2022, at 03:23 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement