Outram, Singapore - WikipediaOutram, Singapore From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Planning Area in Central Area, Singapore This article is about district in Singapore. For other uses of Outram, see Outram (disambiguation). Planning Area in Central Region ----, Singapore Outram Planning Area Other transcription(s) • Chinese 欧南 • Pinyin Ōu nán • Malay Outram • Tamil ஊட்ரம் From top left to right: Panoramic view of the State Courts in Outram, Buddha Tooth Relic Temple and Museum at Chinatown, New Bridge Road and Eu Tong Sen Street at night, Aerial panorama of Chinatown at night, The Pinnacle@Duxton from Neil Road, Sculptures at Telok Ayer Green, Hong Lim Park with Parkroyal on Pickering and One Upper Pickering in the background Location in Central Region Outram Location of Outram within Singapore Coordinates: 1°17′5.6″N 103°50′38″E﻿ / ﻿1.284889°N 103.84389°E﻿ / 1.284889; 103.84389 Country Singapore Region Central Region CDC Central Singapore CDC Town council Tanjong Pagar Town Council Jalan Besar Town Council Constituency Tanjong Pagar GRC Jalan Besar GRC Government • Mayor Central Singapore CDC Denise Phua • Members of Parliament Tanjong Pagar GRC Indranee Rajah Jalan Besar GRC Josephine Teo Area [1] • Total 1.37 km2 (0.53 sq mi) • Rank 51st Population (2019)[1][2] • Total 18,960 • Rank 27th • Density 14,000/km2 (36,000/sq mi) • Rank 5th Demonym(s) Official Outram resident Postal district 3 Outram /uːtrəm/ is a planning area located within the Central Area of the Central Region of Singapore. The area is bordered by these planning areas: Singapore River to the north, the Downtown Core to the east and south, and Bukit Merah to the west. Outram is home to several key municipal buildings, such as Singapore General Hospital (SGH) and several other specialist health centres operated by Singapore Health Services (SingHealth) as well as the Central Narcotics Bureau and the Police Cantonment Complex. Outram Secondary School is situated in nearby York Hill. Across the Outram Road from the Outram Park MRT station is the Health Sciences Authority building. Along the same side of the road further down towards College Road, is Block 9 where Mortuary@HSA is located. At the junction of Outram Road and College Road stands the Alumni Building which at one time housed the Department of Scientific Services (DSS) before it was relocated to its present location in HSA Building. Etymology[edit] Outram Road was named by the Municipality in 1858 after a British general, Sir James Outram (1803–1863), of the Indian rebellion of 1857 fame. The nearby Havelock Road was named in reference to Major-General Sir Henry Havelock. General Outram and General Havelock were two of the leaders in the British army during the Indian rebellion of 1857. History[edit] Known as si pai poh in Hokkien, it means "Sepoy plain". The Sepoy Lines and police station and parade ground are at one end of Outram Road. Both designations of Sepoy Plain and Sepoy Lines refer to the public shooting of 47 sepoys at the wall of Outram Prison in 1915. This was in the aftermath of the 1915 Singapore Mutiny which was quelled by local and British military forces. References[edit] ^ a b Outram (Planning Area, Singapore) - Population Statistics, Charts, Map and Location ^ "Statistics Singapore - Geographic Distribution - 2018 Latest Data". Retrieved February 11, 2019. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Outram. Victor R Savage, Brenda S A Yeoh (2003), Toponymics - A Study of Singapore Street Names, Eastern Universities Press, ISBN 981-210-364-3 v t e Places in Singapore by region Listed by planning areas (Subzones in parenthesis) Central Bishan Marymount Upper Thomson Bukit Merah Alexandra Bukit Ho Swee Depot Road HarbourFront Kampong Tiong Bahru Telok Blangah Tiong Bahru Bukit Timah Holland Road Downtown Core Anson Bugis City Hall Clifford Pier Marina Centre Raffles Place Tanjong Pagar Geylang Aljunied Geylang East Kampong Ubi MacPherson Kallang Bendemeer Boon Keng Crawford Geylang Bahru Kallang Bahru Kampong Bugis Kampong Java Lavender Tanjong Rhu Marina East Marina South Marine Parade East Coast Katong Mountbatten Museum Bras Basah Dhoby Ghaut Fort Canning Newton Novena Balestier Orchard Outram Chinatown Pearl's Hill Queenstown Commonwealth Dover Ghim Moh Kent Ridge Pasir Panjang River Valley Rochor Bencoolen Farrer Park Kampong Glam Little India Mount Emily Rochor Canal Sungei Road Singapore River Boat Quay Clarke Quay Robertson Quay Southern Islands Sentosa Straits View Tanglin Toa Payoh Bidadari Joo Seng Potong Pasir East Bedok Reservoir Kaki Bukit Kembangan Siglap Changi Airport Changi Bay Pasir Ris Loyang Paya Lebar Tampines Simei North Central Water Catchment Lim Chu Kang Mandai Sembawang Admiralty Senoko Simpang Pulau Seletar Sungei Kadut Kranji Turf Club Woodlands Marsiling Yishun Lower Seletar North-East Ang Mo Kio Cheng San Chong Boon Kebun Baru Yio Chu Kang Hougang Defu Industrial Park Kovan Lorong Halus North-Eastern Islands Punggol Coney Island Seletar Aerospace Park Sengkang Anchorvale Buangkok Compassvale Fernvale Jalan Kayu Rivervale Serangoon Garden North Lorong Chuan West Boon Lay Samulun Bukit Batok Central Brickworks Bukit Gombak Guilin Hillview Bukit Panjang Dairy Farm Nature Reserve Senja Choa Chu Kang Yew Tee Clementi Faber Toh Tuck West Coast Jurong East International Business Park Jurong Gateway Jurong Port Jurong River Penjuru Crescent Teban Gardens Yuhua Jurong West Central Boon Lay Place Chin Bee Hong Kah Kian Teck Safti Taman Jurong Wenya Yunnan Pioneer Benoi Sector Gul Circle Joo Koon Pioneer Sector Tengah Tuas Tuas View Western Islands Jurong Island Bukum Semakau Sudong Western Water Catchment Authority control General VIAF 1 WorldCat (via VIAF) National libraries United States This Singapore location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Outram,_Singapore&oldid=1068711997" Categories: Outram, Singapore Places in Singapore Singapore geography stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Commons link is locally defined Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with WorldCat-VIAF identifiers All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Bân-lâm-gú فارسی 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 29 January 2022, at 23:16 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement