15 years of recognition. | Goliath Business News24 captures 22 Jan 2009 - 30 Aug 2021 Dec JAN Aug 22 2008 2009 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090122051128/http://goliath.ecnext.com:80/coms2/gi_0199-4133520/15-years-of-recognition-Special.html We have detected that your web browser does not have JavaScript enabled. To view Goliath's company profiles, news and business information, please enable JavaScript now. Goliath About Us My Account View Cart Browse or Search over 5 million articles » Find Articles by Publication Home | Industry Information | Business News | Browse by Publication | T | TelevisionWeek 15 years of recognition. Publication: TelevisionWeek Publication Date: 25-APR-05 Format: Online Delivery: Immediate Online Access Full Article Title: 15 years of recognition.(Special Report: GLAAD Awards)(Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation) Article Excerpt Here are the winners in the TV categories over the 15-year history of the GLAAD Media Awards. Dates reflect the year of the awards ceremonies; programs ran during the previous year. The list was provided by GLAAD. 15th Annual GLAAD Media Awards-2004 Comedy Series: "Sex and the City''... View more below Read this article now - Try Goliath Business News - FREE! You can view this article PLUS... Over 5 million business articles Hundreds of the most trusted magazines, newswires, and journals (see list) Premium business information that is timely and relevant Unlimited Access Now for a Limited Time, try Goliath Business News - Free for 7 Days! Tell Me More Terms and Conditions Purchase this article for $4.95 Buy Now Get Goliath Business News for 1 year - Just $99 (Save 65%) Tell Me More Terms and Conditions Already a subscriber? Log in to view full article ...(HBO) Drama Series: "Playmakers'' (ESPN) Individual Episode: "Boston Public: Chapter Fifty-Eight'' (Fox) Television Movie: "Angels in America'' (HBO) Reality Program: "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy (Bravo) Daily Drama: "All My Children'' (ABC) Talk Show: "The Oprah Winfrey Show: The Husband Who Became a Woman'' (syndicated) TV Journalism: Tie-"PrimeTime Thursday: Not Fit to Fight'' (ABC) and "KCAL 9 News: Up Close: The Killing of Gwen Araujo'' (KCAL, Los Angeles) 14th Annual GLAAD Media Awards-2003 Comedy Series: "Will & Grace'' (NBC) Drama Series: "Six Feet Under'' (HBO) Individual Episode: "Resurrection... NOTE: All illustrations and photos have been removed from this article. More articles from TelevisionWeek Close-up: Sarah Smith.(Newsmakers)(named director of development for t..., April 25, 2005 Xerox Web Effort to Measure VOD Viewing; 13-Second On-Demand Ad Refers..., April 25, 2005 Broadcast welcomes partners.(TV Currents)(Verizon Communications to co..., April 25, 2005 Quick takes; Is the upfront market important to your business?(Press R..., April 25, 2005 Liquid pours "Greatness' for MTV sked; Players vie for records.(TV Cur..., April 25, 2005 Looking for additional articles? Search our database of over 3 million articles. Looking for more in-depth information on this industry? Search our complete database of Industry & Market reports by text, subject, publication name or publication date. About Goliath Whether you're looking for sales prospects, competitive information, company analysis or best practices in managing your organization, Goliath can help you meet your business needs. Our extensive business information databases empower business professionals with both the breadth and depth of credible, authoritative information they need to support their business goals. Whether it be strategic planning, sales prospecting, company research or defining management best practices - Goliath is your leading source for accurate information. Home Company Profiles Industry Information Business Development Resources Business Management Resources U.S. Job Search Advertising, Content Licensing, Refund Policy, Contact Us, Site Map, Add to del.icio.us, Customer Service, How to Buy, Frequently Asked Questions Use of the Goliath service and this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy. Other Gale Sites: Books & Authors, MovieRetriever.com, WiseTo Social Issues, AccessMyLibrary Copyright © 2008, The Gale Group, a part of Cengage Learning, All Rights Reserved