Why we'll miss our absent Friends - Features, Unsorted - Independent.ie26 captures 24 Jul 2012 - 30 Aug 2021 Jun JUL Nov 24 2011 2012 2014 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wide Crawl started April 2012 Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from April 2012. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20120724004952/http://www.independent.ie/unsorted/features/why-well-miss-our-absent-friends-170513.html Skip to navigation Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Skip to tertiary content Skip to footer Tuesday, July 24 2012 Follow Like Us Dublin Hi 23 °C | Lo 15°C Search this site: Search Features Headlines Independent.ie Follow us on Twitter and Facebook | See Technology | Navigation News Breaking News National News World News Sport National News National News Video Courts World News Europe Middle East Americas Africa Asia-Pacific And Finally World News Video Today's Paper Newspapers Today's ePaper Bray People Carlow People Corkman Drogheda Independent Enniscorthy Guardian Evening Herald Fingal Independent Gorey Guardian Kerryman New Ross Standard Sligo Champion The Argus Wexford People Wicklow People Opinion Letters Columnists Editorial Analysis Comment Farming News & Features Beef Dairy Sheep Crops Property Most Popular Topics Video News Weather Business Irish European World Technology Media Stocks & Markets Personal Finance Latest News Property & Mortgages Pensions Surviving the Recession Small Business Commercial Property Sport Soccer Premier League Champions League League of Ireland Euro 2012 Gaelic Football Hurling Rugby Heineken Cup Rabodirect PRO 12 Six Nations Golf Horse Racing Punchestown Other Sports Olympics 2012 Sports Video Olympics 2012 Entertainment Film & Cinema Music Going Out Books Arts TV & Radio Crosswords Simple Crossword Cryptic Crossword Sudoku Word Scrambler Horoscopes Lotto Competitions Video Health Health News Health Advice Diet & Fitness Eye Health Lifestyle Independent Woman Fashion Beauty Celebrity Gossip Love & Sex Health & Fitness Dating Competitions Horoscopes iPhone App Mothers & Babies Food & Drink Restaurant guide Home & Garden Property Plus Education Latest News Features Going to College Motoring Lifestyle Video We Do Happy Competition Woman Travel Travel News Inside Ireland Travel Destinations Travel Guides Jobs Search Jobs Advertise a Job Upload CV Career Advice Education & Training Property Buy Property Rent Property Advertise Properties Cars Used Car Search Car Dealers Directory Business Search List/Add your Business Classifieds Book a Print Ad Post a Job Print Advertising Online Advertising Death Notices Family Announcements Dating Mature Dating Gay Dating Offers Daily Deals from The Independent & The Independent on Sunday Featured Olympics 2012 Michaela McAreavey Video News Mothers & Babies McDonald's Promotion Celebrity Galleries Breadcrumbs You are here: Home > Unsorted > Features Why we'll miss our absent Friends Print Email Thursday May 06 2004 There have probably been events in human history as significant as the demise of Friends, which airs for the last time in the US tonight. Right now, it's hard to think of one. I'll Be There For You chirped the frankly evil theme song, but to a generation, Friends' real message was far more subversive. There have probably been events in human history as significant as the demise of Friends, which airs for the last time in the US tonight. Right now, it's hard to think of one. I'll Be There For You chirped the frankly evil theme song, but to a generation, Friends' real message was far more subversive. Forget the big picture, it urged us. There is no big picture. Get yourself a finely tuned sense of irony and some wisecracking mates - let tomorrow worry about itself. For those who came of age in 1990s Ireland, Friends' unstated mantra - a mishmash of slackerdom and Mammon worship - felt like a revelation. We were confident, educated and had the luxury of being able to goof through our 20s, unsure of where we were headed. Career, money, sex - we were free to conspicuously indulge ourselves to a degree previously unthinkable. We were also the first to discover it wasn't enough. Friends chimed with our pampered confusion. Rachel, Chandler et al were bumbling through life too, less mature and at the same time strangely wiser than their parents had been at their age. Yeah, they lived in cathedral-sized apartments and were uniformly gorgeous - or seemed that way until we started to think of them less as TV characters than as surrogate soul mates. Yet they lived in the same key as us, fumbling their responsibilities, screwing up their love lives, wondering what it was all supposed to add up to anyway. The show reflected 20-something anxieties but also refined our attitudes and outlook. Would Irish coffee culture have emerged quite so emphatically had Central Perk not inspired us? Pass an hour in a 'hip' Dublin pub today and you will see groups of young women clustered by the bar, neck deep in cocktails and tittle tattle, convinced that by looking as though they had recently fetched up from an episode of Sex and The City they will somehow inch closer to its $400 heels and loft-apartment lifestyle. Ten years ago, Friends' impact was equally dramatic; en masse we began to mooch around in coffee houses, where suddenly tattered sofas and weird brews - this is called a Mocha you say? - were ubiquitous. Like all addictions, Friends had a murky side. Occasionally it made us feel safe, if not downright smug, in our under achievement. We were losers - but look, so was Chandler! Some of us clasped it like a safety blanket, overlooking the fact that Chandler could laugh at his nothing desk job only because he was a figment of a screen writer's imagination. And friends weren't always there for you. In Friends, six people chicks could hang out without any petty sexual jealousy, primary-school chauvinism and unrequited crushes. Our own lives almost never played out that way - how often does a Rachel fall for a Ross this side of the TV screen? We forgave Friends its superficialities in part because it was always funny. Even at its corniest and most po-faced you knew a killer one-liner was only a cut-scene away. True, the gags were mostly riffs on a theme: Chandler was bone-dry ironic, Ross perennially dorky, Monica the neatness fascist. But they remained hilarious to the end. Remember the 'which character are you' game? Your choice of friend was like an X-ray of your ego; the Chandler-wannabe believed himself a chain-gun wit. Ross-alike secretly fancied and wanted to marry you. Joey well, nobody thought they were a Joey. Which was rich, as sex-obsessed meat heads were not in short supply in the mid-1990s. What makes the passing of Friends so poignant is that it has forced the series to acknowledge the real world. Unthinkably its characters have started to drift apart; linger on our screens any longer and Friends could plausibly have been rechristened Acquaintances. This seems like a minor bereavement. As we gaze back at our own 20s, at the possibilities that never came to fruition, those with whom we have lost touch, its demise has the feel of a last-boarding call. Life is moving on. Miss the ride and we could be floundering on the starting grid for ever. Ed Power ...and did you know? * The first line of dialogue in the very first pilot episode of Friends was: "There's nothing to tell." * A 30-second commercial during the break in the show in America costs advertisers an estimated $1 million. * Other titles considered for the series included Once Upon a Time in the West Village, Insomnia Café and Across the Hall. The original title, Friends Like Us, was shortened to Friends at the 11th hour. * According to Jennifer Aniston, her famous hairdo was created by accident when a friend cut her hair with a razor. * Matt LeBlanc (Joey) was down to his last $11 when he got the part in Friends. * Central Perk is based on the Manhattan Café in New York's West Village. * Famous guest stars on Friends have included George Clooney, Bruce Willis, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Julia Roberts, Reese Witherspoon and Winona Ryder. * Matthew Perry (Chandler) is the son of an actor who starred in the Old Spice aftershave ads; his mother was press secretary to Canadian prime minister Pierre Trudeau. * The whole cast huddled together before each episode to wish each other luck. This reportedly left frequent guest star Tom Selleck feeling left out. * Lisa Kudrow (Phoebe) is the daughter of one of the world's leading experts on headaches. Download our Free iPhone App Now Print Email Video Highlights (video) EU foreign ministers to increase pressure on Syria EU foreign ministers agree to strengthen arms embargo and increase sanctions against Syria. (video) Norway massacre victims remembered Anders Behring Breivik, a 33-year-old far-right fanatic, has admitted to the attacks on July 22 last year - a bombing of the government headquarters in Oslo, killing eight, and a shooting rampage that left 69 dead at the left-wing Labour Party's youth camp on Utoya island. In a wreath-laying ceremony at the bomb site today, prime minister Jens Stoltenberg said Breivik had not succeeded in his declared goal of destroying Norway's commitment to being an inclusive, multicultural society. (video) Actors react to cinema shooting After Thursday night's Colorado cinema shootings that took the lives of 12 and injured 58 others, celebrities in Beverly Hills, at the opening day of the 2012 summer session of the Television Critics Association, have been raising questions about stateside gun control. View more Irish Independent Breaking News Breaking News News National News World News Sport 00:27 Sir Elton urges Aids understanding 00:27 Youth help 'too little, too late' 00:27 Pubs could pay more to close later Top stories from Monday, 23.07.12 23:21 Modric back in training 22:51 Cahill set for Red Bulls move 22:21 QPR end tour with win 00:27 Youth help 'too little, too late' 00:27 Pubs could pay more to close later Top stories from Monday, 23.07.12 18:31 McAteer's bank earnings outlined 18:31 Whelan's career with Anglo Irish 15:27 Government waits on abortion report 00:27 Sir Elton urges Aids understanding Top stories from Monday, 23.07.12 20:32 Cameron to meet Romney at No 10 20:27 Batman gunman stays silent in court 16:56 Briton killed in Afghanistan named 16:16 US child abuse college fined £39m Top stories from Monday, 23.07.12 23:21 Modric back in training 22:51 Cahill set for Red Bulls move 22:21 QPR end tour with win 20:32 Barton to train with Fleetwood 18:02 Gecov makes Gent move more breaking news Most Popular Read Emailed Photos Four-year-old drowns at National Aquatic Centre Sean Quinn Jnr 'badly shaken' as he settles into routine of prison life Two former Anglo executives charged with fraud offences DJ Carey shock after brain surgery for blood clots Donations flood in for charities after tragic swim death of Paraic Casey I'd do it again, says principal who barred pregnant girl from school Does it come in green and gold? Kerry's Paul Galvin to launch his own fashion line Car thief speeds off with baby in back seat Tea (cosy) father? Ah go on, go on – Pauline McLynn selling hand knitted tea cosies Landlords fear Atlantic case will set precedent Two former Anglo executives charged with fraud offences Landlords fear Atlantic case will set precedent Four-year-old drowns at National Aquatic Centre Donations flood in for charities after tragic swim death of Paraic Casey Madonna's ready to get into the groove for Dublin show -- but only until 11pm I'd do it again, says principal who barred pregnant girl from school Daniel McConnell: Next big hot potato is property tax of up to €1,000 Cameron to meet Romney at No 10 Car thief speeds off with baby in back seat Exam howlers reveal Stalin's sausage roll ‘buffet zone’ plan Latest celebrity sightings Pictures: Ireland fans in Poznan exhibition Pictures: Seven Days Leinster final: Dublin v Meath Pictures: Olympics venue guide Pictures: Batman cinema shooting Georgia Salpa Most valuable young footballers Pictures: Early prototype of Apple iPad The week in pictures View more most popular Sponsored Features Coca-cola Enter the €125k coca-cola thank you fund Look sharp Make-up and styling tips for specs wearers Family time this summer Exercise: Ten top tips to get children active Highlights Independentwoman.ie Independent Woman A fresh, fun site featuring celeb gossip, fashion, beauty, love & sex, and health & fitness. Findajob.ie Job search Search for jobs by keyword, category, or location. College Third Level College Diploma, Degree, Postgraduate and Professional Courses Yourlocal.ie Directory Wherever you are... Find what you're looking for on Yourlocal.ie. GrabOne GrabOne Daily Deals: Find the best things to do, see and eat in Ireland Independent Channels: RSS Learn more... Mobile Learn more... Facebook Learn more... Newsletter Learn more... This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. See our Privacy & Cookie Policy News Breaking News National News World News Today's Paper Opinion Most Popular Weather Business Irish European World Technology Media Stocks & Markets Personal Finance Sport Soccer Gaelic Football Hurling Rugby Heineken Cup Golf Horse Racing Entertainment Film & Cinema Music Festivals Going Out TV & Radio Crosswords Horoscopes Woman Lifestyle Travel Jobs Property Directory Cars About Us Sitemap Contact Us Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookie Policy Advertise with us Group Websites An INM Website Search Search ©Independent.ie Back to top