Cross-dressing - WikipediaCross-dressing From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Practice of dressing in a style or manner not traditionally associated with one's sex Irving Berlin's "This Is the Army, Mr. Jones", performed by cross-dressers (1942) Part of a series on Transgender topics Gender identities Androgyne Cisgender Gender bender Non-binary (or genderqueer) Third gender Akava'ine Bakla Bissu Calabai Faʻafafine Fakaleitī Femminiello Hijra Kathoey Khanith Koekchuch Māhū Mak nyah Mukhannathun Muxe Albanian sworn virgins Takatāpui Travesti Two-spirit Winkte Trans man Trans woman Transsexual History Outline Timeline United Kingdom United States Compton's Cafeteria riot Stonewall riots Intersex Health care and medicine Detransition Gender dysphoria In children Health care Hormone therapy Pregnancy Sex reassignment Surgery Therapy To female To male Voice therapy Rights and legal issues Discrimination Anti-gender movement Inequality Non-binary Transgender men Transmisogyny Transphobia Legal status Rights movement Non-binary, third gender Organizations Military service Toilets Bathroom bills Unisex Violence Trans bashing Unlawful killings Trans panic Yogyakarta Principles Society and culture LGBT-related films Events Awareness Week Day of Remembrance Day of Visibility March LGBT Flag History Media portrayals Fictional characters Literature Film Television People Non-binary Publications Religion Sports Transitioning Youth more Theory and concepts Ambiphilia, androphilia, gynephilia Childhood gender nonconformity Cisgender / cissexual Cross-dressing Deadnaming Gender binary Gender expression Gender identity Gender-sexuality questioning Gender variance Postgenderism Transfeminism Transmedicalism Transmisogyny By country Argentina Australia Rights Re Kevin Brazil Canada Bill C-16, 2016 Rights China Germany India Rights of Transgender Persons Bill, 2014 Tamil Nadu Iran Ireland New Zealand Singapore South Africa Turkey United Kingdom Rights Gender Recognition Act 2004 History United States Cafeteria riot Disenfranchisement History Legal history Rights Title IX See also Gender Intersex Queer heterosexuality LGBT Sex sex assignment Sex and gender distinction Sexual orientation LGBT portal Transgender portal v t e Cross-dressing History of cross-dressing In wartime History of drag Rebecca Riots Casa Susanna Pantomime dame Principal boy Travesti (theatre) Travesti (gender identity) Key elements Passing Transvestism Modern drag culture Ball culture Drag king Drag pageantry Drag queen Female queen (drag) Sexual aspects Autoandrophilia Autogynephilia Feminization Petticoating Transvestic fetishism Other aspects Albanian sworn virgins Bacha bazi Bacha posh Crossplay (cosplay) En femme Passing as male Breast binding Female urination device Packing Passing as female Breast forms Cleavage enhancement Hip and buttock padding Tucking Gaff Organizations Tri-Ess ABGLT Books My Husband Betty She's Not The Man I Married The Boy in the Dress v t e Cross-dressing is the act of wearing items of clothing not commonly associated with one's sex.[1] Cross-dressing has been used for purposes of disguise, comfort, comedy, and self-expression in modern times and throughout history. Almost every human society throughout history has had expected norms for each gender relating to style, color, or type of clothing they are expected to wear, and likewise most societies have had a set of guidelines, views or even laws defining what type of clothing is appropriate for each gender. The term "cross-dressing" refers to an action or a behavior, without attributing or implying any specific causes or motives for that behavior. Cross-dressing is not synonymous with being transgender. Contents 1 Terminology 2 History 3 Varieties 3.1 Gender disguise 3.2 Theater and performance 3.3 Sexual fetishes 3.4 Passing 4 Clothes 5 Social issues 6 Festivals 7 Analysis 8 British pantomime, television and comedy 9 Literature 10 Medical views 11 See also 12 Notes 13 References 14 Further reading 15 External links Terminology[edit] The phenomenon of cross-dressing is seen throughout recorded history, being referred to as far back as the Hebrew Bible.[2] The terms to describe it have changed throughout history; the Anglo-Saxon-rooted term "cross-dresser" has largely superseded the Latin-origin term "transvestite", which has come to be seen as outdated and derogatory.[3][4][5] This is because the latter was historically used to diagnose psychiatric disorders (e.g. transvestic fetishism), but the former was coined by the transgender community.[3][6] The Oxford English Dictionary gives 1911 as the earliest citation of the term "cross-dressing", by Edward Carpenter: "Cross-dressing must be taken as a general indication of, and a cognate phenomenon to, homosexuality". In 1928, Havelock Ellis used the two terms "cross-dressing" and "transvestism" interchangeably. The earliest citations for "cross-dress" and "cross-dresser" are 1966 and 1976 respectively.[7] History[edit] Main article: History of cross-dressing See also: Trousers as women's clothing Frances Benjamin Johnston (right) poses with two cross-dressing friends; the "lady" is identified by Johnston as the illustrator Mills Thompson. Cross-dressing has been practiced throughout much of recorded history, in many societies, and for many reasons. Examples exist in Greek, Norse, and Hindu mythology. Cross-dressing can be found in folklore, literature, theater, and music, such as kabuki and Korean shamanism. In the British and European context, theatrical troupes ("playing companies") were all-male, with the female parts undertaken by boy players. Depiction of Welsh labourers dressed in women's clothing within the Rebecca Riots, Illustrated London News 1843 The Rebecca Riots took place between 1839 and 1843 in West and Mid Wales.[8] They were a series of protests undertaken by local farmers and agricultural workers in response to unfair taxation. The rioters, often men dressed as women, took their actions against toll-gates, as they were tangible representations of high taxes and tolls. The riots ceased prior to 1844 due to several factors, including increased troop levels, a desire by the protestors to avoid violence and the appearance of criminal groups using the guise of the biblical character Rebecca for their own purposes.[9] In 1844 an Act of Parliament to consolidate and amend the laws relating to turnpike trusts in Wales was passed. A variety of historical figures are known to have cross-dressed to varying degrees. Many women found they had to disguise themselves as men in order to participate in the wider world. For example, Margaret King cross-dressed in the early 19th century to attend medical school, as none would accept female students. A century later, Vita Sackville-West dressed as a young soldier in order to "walk out" with her girlfriend Violet Keppel, to avoid the street harassment that two women would have faced. The prohibition on women wearing male garb, once strictly applied, still has echoes today in some Western societies which require girls and women to wear skirts, for example as part of school uniform or office dress codes.[10] In some countries, even in casual settings, women are still prohibited from wearing traditionally male clothing. Sometimes all trousers, no matter how loose and long, are automatically considered "indecent", which may render their wearer subject to severe punishment, as in the case of Lubna al-Hussein in Sudan in 2009. Varieties[edit] Drag queens are a form of cross-dressing as performance art. There are many different kinds of cross-dressing and many different reasons why an individual might engage in cross-dressing behavior.[11] Some people cross-dress as a matter of comfort or style, a personal preference for clothing associated with the opposite sex. Some people cross-dress to shock others or challenge social norms; others will limit their cross-dressing to underwear, so that it is not apparent. Some people attempt to pass as a member of the opposite sex in order to gain access to places or resources they would not otherwise be able to reach. Gender disguise[edit] Gender disguise has been used by women and girls to pass as male, and by men and boys to pass as female. Gender disguise has also been used as a plot device in storytelling, particularly in narrative ballads,[12] and is a recurring motif in literature, theater, and film. Historically, some women have cross-dressed to take up male-dominated or male-exclusive professions, such as military service. Conversely, some men have cross-dressed to escape from mandatory military service[a] or as a disguise to assist in political or social protest, as men in Wales did in the Rebecca Riots and when conducting Ceffyl Pren as a form of mob justice. Undercover journalism may require cross-dressing, as with Norah Vincent's project Self-Made Man. Some girls in Afghanistan, long after the fall of the Taliban, are still disguised by their families as boys. This is known as bacha posh.[13] Theater and performance[edit] Single-sex theatrical troupes often have some performers who cross-dress to play roles written for members of the opposite sex (travesti and trouser roles). Cross-dressing, particularly the depiction of males wearing dresses, is often used for comic effect onstage and on-screen. Drag is a special form of performance art based on the act of cross-dressing. A drag queen is usually a male-assigned person who performs as an exaggeratedly feminine character, in heightened costuming sometimes consisting of a showy dress, high-heeled shoes, obvious make-up, and wig. A drag queen may imitate famous female film or pop-music stars. A faux queen is a female-assigned person employing the same techniques. A drag king is a counterpart of the drag queen - a female-assigned person who adopts a masculine persona in performance or imitates a male film or pop-music star. Some female-assigned people undergoing gender reassignment therapy also self-identify as 'drag kings'. The modern activity of battle reenactments has raised the question of women passing as male soldiers. In 1989, Lauren Burgess dressed as a male soldier in a U.S. National Park Service reenactment of the Battle of Antietam, and was ejected after she was discovered to be a woman. Burgess sued the Park Service for sexual discrimination.[14] The case spurred spirited debate among Civil War buffs. In 1993, a federal judge ruled in Burgess's favor.[15] "Wigging" refers to the practice of male stunt doubles taking the place of an actress, parallel to "paint downs", where white stunt doubles are made up to resemble black actors.[16] Female stunt doubles have begun to protest this norm of "historical sexism", saying that it restricts their already limited job possibilities.[17][18] Sexual fetishes[edit] A transvestic fetishist wearing latex clothes A transvestic fetishist is a person who cross-dresses as part of a sexual fetish. According to the fourth edition of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, this fetishism was limited to heterosexual men; however, DSM-5 does not have this restriction, and opens it to women and men, regardless of their sexual orientation.[19] Sometimes either member of a heterosexual couple will cross-dress in order to arouse the other. For example, the male might wear skirts or lingerie and/or the female will wear boxers or other male clothing. (See also forced feminization) Passing[edit] Main article: Passing (gender) Some people who cross-dress may endeavor to project a complete impression of belonging to another gender, including mannerisms, speech patterns, and emulation of sexual characteristics. This is referred to as passing or "trying to pass," depending how successful the person is. An observer who sees through the cross-dresser's attempt to pass is said to have "read" or "clocked" them. There are videos, books, and magazines on how a man may look more like a woman.[20] Others may choose to take a mixed approach, adopting some feminine traits and some masculine traits in their appearance. For instance, a man might wear both a dress and a beard. This is sometimes known as "genderfuck". In a broader context, cross-dressing may also refer to other actions undertaken to pass as a particular sex, such as packing (accentuating the male crotch bulge) or, the opposite, tucking (concealing the male crotch bulge).[21] Clothes[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Some male crossdressers seek a more subtle feminine image. The actual determination of cross-dressing is largely socially constructed. For example, in Western society, trousers have long been adopted for usage by women, and it is no longer regarded as cross-dressing. In cultures where men have traditionally worn skirt-like garments such as the kilt or sarong, these are not seen as women's clothing, and wearing them is not seen as cross-dressing for men. As societies are becoming more global in nature, both men's and women's clothing are adopting styles of dress associated with other cultures. A crossdresser makeover. Cosplaying may also involve cross-dressing, for some females may wish to dress as a male, and vice versa (see Crossplay (cosplay)). Breast binding (for females) is not uncommon and is one of the things likely needed to cosplay a male character. In most parts of the world it remains socially disapproved for men to wear clothes traditionally associated with women. Attempts are occasionally made, e.g. by fashion designers, to promote the acceptance of skirts as everyday wear for men. Cross-dressers have complained that society permits women to wear pants or jeans and other masculine clothing, while condemning any man who wants to wear clothing sold for women. While creating a more feminine figure, male cross-dressers will often utilize different types and styles of breast forms, which are silicone prostheses traditionally used by women who have undergone mastectomies to recreate the visual appearance of a breast. While most male cross-dressers utilize clothing associated with modern women, some are involved in subcultures that involve dressing as little girls or in vintage clothing. Some such men have written that they enjoy dressing as femininely as possible, so they wear frilly dresses with lace and ribbons, bridal gowns complete with veils, as well as multiple petticoats, corsets, girdles and/or garter belts with nylon stockings. The term underdressing is used by male cross-dressers to describe wearing female undergarments such as panties under their male clothes. The famous low-budget film-maker Edward D. Wood, Jr. said he often wore women's underwear under his military uniform as a Marine during World War II.[22] Female masking is a form of cross-dressing in which men wear masks that present them as female.[23] Social issues[edit] Satire on cross-dressing, around 1780 Britain Cross-dressers may begin wearing clothing associated with the opposite sex in childhood, using the clothes of a sibling, parent, or friend. Some parents have said they allowed their children to cross-dress and, in many cases, the child stopped when they became older. The same pattern often continues into adulthood, where there may be confrontations with a spouse, partner, family member or friend. Married cross-dressers can experience considerable anxiety and guilt if their spouse objects to their behavior. Sometimes because of guilt or other reasons cross-dressers dispose of all their clothing, a practice called "purging", only to start collecting other gender's clothing again.[11] Festivals[edit] Celebrations of cross-dressing occur in widespread cultures. The Abissa festival in Côte d'Ivoire,[24] Ofudamaki in Japan,[25] and Kottankulangara Festival in India[26] are all examples of this. Analysis[edit] Advocacy for social change has done much to relax the constrictions of gender roles on men and women, but they are still subject to prejudice from some people.[27][28][29] It is noticeable that as being transgender becomes more socially accepted as a normal human condition, the prejudices against cross-dressing are changing quite quickly, just as the similar prejudices against homosexuals have changed rapidly in recent decades.[30] The reason it is so hard to have statistics for female-assigned cross-dressers is that the line where cross-dressing stops and cross-dressing begins has become blurred, whereas the same line for men is as well defined as ever. This is one of the many issues being addressed by third wave feminism as well as the modern-day masculist movement. The general culture[clarification needed] has very mixed views about cross-dressing. A woman who wears her husband's shirt to bed is considered attractive, while a man who wears his wife's nightgown to bed may be considered transgressive. Marlene Dietrich in a tuxedo was considered very erotic; Jack Lemmon in a dress was considered ridiculous.[31] All this may result from an overall gender role rigidity for males; that is, because of the prevalent gender dynamic throughout the world, men frequently encounter discrimination when deviating from masculine gender norms, particularly violations of heteronormativity.[32] A man's adoption of feminine clothing is often considered a going down in the gendered social order whereas a woman's adoption of what are traditionally men's clothing (at least in the English-speaking world) has less of an impact because women have been traditionally subordinate to men, unable to affect serious change through style of dress. Thus when a male cross-dresser puts on his clothes, he transforms into the quasi-female and thereby becomes an embodiment of the conflicted gender dynamic. Following the work of Butler, gender proceeds along through ritualized performances, but in male cross-dressing it becomes a performative "breaking" of the masculine and a "subversive repetition" of the feminine.[33] Psychoanalysts today do not regard cross-dressing by itself as a psychological problem, unless it interferes with a person's life. "For instance," said Dr. Joseph Merlino, senior editor of Freud at 150: 21st Century Essays on a Man of Genius, "[suppose that]...I'm a cross-dresser and I don't want to keep it confined to my circle of friends, or my party circle, and I want to take that to my wife and I don't understand why she doesn't accept it, or I take it to my office and I don't understand why they don't accept it, then it's become a problem because it's interfering with my relationships and environment."[34] British pantomime, television and comedy[edit] Comedian Dan Leno as Widow Twankey in the 1896 pantomime Aladdin at Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, London Cross-dressing is a traditional popular trope in British comedy.[35] The Pantomime dame in British pantomime dates from the 19th century, which is part of the theatrical tradition of female characters portrayed by male actors in drag. Widow Twankey (Aladdin's mother) is a popular pantomime dame: in 2004 Ian McKellen played the role. The Monty Python comedy troupe donned frocks and makeup, playing female roles while speaking in falsetto.[36] Character comics such as Benny Hill and Dick Emery drew upon several female identities. In the BBC's long-running sketch show The Dick Emery Show (broadcast from 1963 to 1981), Emery played Mandy, a busty peroxide blonde whose catchphrase, "Ooh, you are awful ... but I like you!", was given in response to a seemingly innocent remark made by her interviewer, but perceived by her as ribald double entendre.[37] The popular tradition of cross dressing in British comedy extended to the 1984 music video for Queen's "I Want to Break Free" where the band parody several female characters from the soap opera Coronation Street.[38] Literature[edit] Women dressed as men, and less often men dressed as women, is a common trope in fiction[39] and folklore. For example, in Norse myth, Thor disguised himself as Freya.[39] These disguises were also popular in Gothic fiction, such as in works by Charles Dickens, Alexandre Dumas, père, and Eugène Sue,[39] and in a number of Shakespeare's plays, such as Twelfth Night. In The Wind in the Willows, Toad dresses as a washerwoman, and in Lord of the Rings, Éowyn pretends to be a man. In science fiction, fantasy and women's literature, this literary motif is occasionally taken further, with literal transformation of a character from male to female or vice versa. Virginia Woolf's Orlando: A Biography focuses on a man who becomes a woman, as does a warrior in Peter S. Beagle's The Innkeeper's Song;[40] while in Geoff Ryman's The Warrior Who Carried Life, Cara magically transforms herself into a man.[40] Other popular examples of gender disguise include Madame Doubtfire (published as Alias Madame Doubtfire in the United States) and its movie adaptation Mrs. Doubtfire, featuring a man disguised as a woman.[41] Similarly, the movie Tootsie features Dustin Hoffman disguised as a woman, while the movie The Associate features Whoopi Goldberg disguised as a man. Medical views[edit] The 10th edition of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems lists dual-role transvestism (non-sexual cross-dressing)[42] and fetishistic transvestism (cross-dressing for sexual pleasure) as disorders.[43] Both listings were removed for the 11th edition.[44] Transvestic fetishism is a paraphilia and a psychiatric diagnosis in the DSM-5 version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.[45] See also[edit] fashion portal Androgyny Autogynephilia Breeches role Breeching (boys) Cross dressing ball Cross-dressing in film and television Cross-dressing in literature Cross-gender acting En femme En homme The Famous Flower of Serving-Men Feminization Gender identity Hijra (South Asia) History of Drag Kathoey List of transgender-related topics List of wartime crossdressers Otokonoko, male crossdressing in Japan Passing (gender) Rebecca Riots Sex and gender distinction Social construction of gender Sexual orientation hypothesis Transvestism Travesti (theatre) Tri-Ess Twelfth Night Two-spirit Womanless wedding Notes[edit] ^ See the television series M*A*S*H for an example of a cross-dresser who did not want to serve in the military (Max Klinger). Although the character was played for laughs, his situation was based on military regulations prohibiting cross-dressing. References[edit] ^ "cross-dress." The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition. Houghton Mifflin Company, 2016. ^ Aggrawal, Anil. (April 2009). "References to the paraphilias and sexual crimes in the Bible". J Forensic Leg Med. 16 (3): 109–14. doi:10.1016/j.jflm.2008.07.006. PMID 19239958. ^ a b Annemarie Vaccaro, Gerri August, Megan S. Kennedy (2011). Safe Spaces: Making Schools and Communities Welcoming to LGBT Youth. ABC-CLIO. p. 142. ISBN 978-0313393686. Retrieved October 21, 2016. Cross-dresser/cross-dressing. (1) The most neutral word to describe a person who dresses, at least partially or part of the time, and for any number of reasons, in clothing associated with another gender within a particular society. Carries no implications of 'usual' gender appearance, or sexual orientation. Has replaced transvestite, which is outdated, problematic, and generally offensive since it was historically used to diagnose medical/mental health disorders.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link) ^ Jamie C. Capuzza, Leland G. Spencer (2015). Transgender Communication Studies: Histories, Trends, and Trajectories. Lexington Books. p. 174. ISBN 978-1498500067. Retrieved October 21, 2016. Eventually, the transvestite label fell out of favor because it was deemed to be derogatory; cross-dresser has emerged as a more suitable replacement (GLAAD, 2014b).{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link) ^ Charles Zastrow (2016). Empowerment Series: Introduction to Social Work and Social Welfare: Empowering People. Cengage Learning. p. 239. ISBN 978-1305388338. Retrieved October 21, 2016. the term transvestite is often considered an offensive term.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link) ^ David A. Gerstner (2006). Routledge International Encyclopedia of Queer Culture. Routledge. p. 568. ISBN 978-0313393686. Retrieved October 21, 2016. A variety of derogatory terms are still used to describe any aspect of the transgender condition. [...] The term transvestite being older [than cross-dresser] and associated with the medical community's negative view of the practice, has come to be seen as a derogatory term. [...] The term cross-dresser, in contrast, having come from the transgender community itself, is a term seen as not possessing these negative connotations. ^ "Home : Oxford English Dictionary". www.oed.com. Retrieved 2019-02-17. ^ Davies, John; Jenkins, Nigel (2008). The Welsh Academy Encyclopaedia of Wales. Cardiff: University of Wales Press. p. 730. ISBN 978-0-7083-1953-6. ^ Gross, David M. (2014). 99 Tactics of Successful Tax Resistance Campaigns. Picket Line Press. pp. 68–69. ISBN 978-1490572741. ^ Doig, Liz (November 4, 1999). "BBC News | UK | Who's wearing the trousers?". news.bbc.co.uk. BBC. Retrieved 12 December 2018. ^ a b Rainbow Reader, Fort Wayne, Indiana ^ Child, Francis James (2003). The English and Scottish Popular Ballads. Vol. II. Dover Publications Inc. pp. 428–432. ISBN 978-0-486-43146-8. ^ Sethi, Anita (2 November 2014). "The Underground Girls of Kabul: The Hidden Lives of Afghan Girls Disguised As Boys by Jenny Nordberg – review". The Guardian. Retrieved 24 December 2018. ^ Robinson, Lynda (September 30, 1991). "Battle re-enactor finds herself at war with U.S. Park Service". The Baltimore Sun. Trif Alatzas. ISSN 1930-8965. OCLC 244481759. Archived from the original on 2018-08-15. Retrieved 13 August 2018. ^ Meyer, Eugene L (March 18, 1993). "Woman Wins Fight Over Civil War 'Battle' Garb". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 14 August 2018. U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth ruled that... the Antietam park policy of 'categorically barring women from portraying male soldiers... constitutes unconstitutional discrimination against women.'" ^ Robb, David (17 May 2018). "Stuntwomen Panel: Evangeline Lilly Says She Was Intentionally Injured While Filming 'Lost'". Deadline. Retrieved 12 December 2018. ^ Carroll, Rory (10 February 2018). "'It's historical sexism' – the fight to end stuntmen doubling for women". The Guardian. Retrieved 12 December 2018. ^ Lavelle, Daniel (27 November 2018). "Why stuntwomen are angry about 'wigging' – and are changing the industry from within". The Guardian. Retrieved 12 December 2018. ^ http://www.dsm5.org/Documents/Paraphilic%20Disorders%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf DSM-5 Documents: Paraphilic Disorders Fact Sheet ^ Transformation magazine; interviews for Rainbow Reader, Fort Wayne, Indiana ^ Rankin, Sue, and Genny Beemyn. "Beyond a binary: The lives of gender‐nonconforming youth." About Campus 17.4 (2012): 2-10 ^ Corliss, Richard (June 1, 1992). "The World's Worst Director". Time. Vol. 139. p. 79 – via Biography Reference Bank. ^ Jamie Clifton (August 30, 2011). "Female Masking". Vice Style. Archived from the original on July 17, 2012. Retrieved 2012-02-07. ^ Hall (1992). Bibliographic Guide to Dance. p. 4. ^ Egli, Justin (13 July 2016). "Visiting an ancient Japanese cross-dressing festival". Dazed. Retrieved 12 December 2018. ^ "Cross-dressing for the Goddess - Times of India". The Times of India. Apr 6, 2008. Retrieved 12 December 2018. ^ Butler, Judith, Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity, Routledge, New York, 2008 ^ Halberstam, Judith, Female Masculinity, Duke University Press, Durham and London, 1998 ^ Epstein, Julia, Straub, Kristina; Eds, Body Guards: The Cultural Politics of Gender Ambiguity, Routledge, London, 1991 ^ "A Survey of LGBT Americans - Chapter 2: Social Acceptance". Pew Research Center's Social & Demographic Trends Project. 2013-06-13. Retrieved 2018-03-07. ^ Blechner, M. J. (2009) Sex Changes: Transformations in Society and Psychoanalysis. New York: Routledge. ^ "Differential Reactions to Men and Women's Gender Role Transgressions: Perceptions of Social Status, Sexual Orientation, and Value Dissimilarity" (PDF). NYU. Retrieved 1 June 2013. ^ Butler, Judith. "Performative Acts and Gender Construction: An Essay in Phenomenology and Feminist Theory" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 January 2012. Retrieved 1 June 2012. ^ Shankbone, David. "Interview with Dr. Joseph Merlino", Wikinews (October 5, 2007) ^ "The Brits and Cross-Dressing: A History". BBC America. Retrieved 26 April 2019. ^ "Cross-Dressing and Fish-Slapping, One Python at a Time". The New York Times. Retrieved 26 April 2019. ^ "The Dick Emery Show". British classic comedy. Retrieved 26 April 2019. ^ McAlpine, Fraser (29 November 2018). "10 things you may not know about Queen's biggest 80s hits". BBC. Retrieved 6 January 2019. ^ a b c Clute & Grant 1997, p. 395 ^ a b Clute & Grant 1997, p. 396 ^ Anita Silvey The essential guide to children's books and their creators p.155 ^ "ICD-10 Version:2016". icd.who.int. Retrieved 2019-10-11. ^ "ICD-10 Version:2016". icd.who.int. Retrieved 2019-10-11. ^ Bollinger, Alex (2019-05-28). "The World Health Organization will no longer classify being transgender as a 'mental disorder'". www.lgbtqnation.com. Retrieved 2019-10-11. ^ American Psychiatric Association (2013). Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Fifth ed.). Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. pp. 685–705. ISBN 978-0-89042-555-8. Further reading[edit] Anders, Charles. The Lazy Crossdresser, Greenery Press, 2002. ISBN 1-890159-37-9. Boyd, Helen. My Husband Betty, Thunder's Mouth Press, 2003 Chesser, Lucy Sarah (2008), Parting with My Sex: Cross-dressing, Inversion and Sexuality in Australian Cultural Life, Sydney University Press, ISBN 978-1-920898-31-1, OCLC 488863093 Clute, John & Grant, John. The Encyclopedia of Fantasy, Orbit Books, 1997. ISBN 978-1-85723-368-1 Dekker, Rudolf M; van de Pol, Lotte C; Kazi Maruful Islam (8 February 1989), The Tradition Of Female Cross-Dressing In Early Modern Europe, Palgrave Macmillan UK, ISBN 978-1-349-19752-1 Hauk, Savannah (1 September 2017), Living with Crossdressing: Defining a New Normal, ISBN 978-1-5378-6529-4, OCLC 1013928885 "Lynne". "A Cross-Dressing-Perspective" External links[edit] Media related to Cross-dressing at Wikimedia Commons The Gender Centre (Australia) Crossdressing Support Group (Canada) v t e Drag Performers‎ Drag kings list Drag queens list Exóticos list Female queens History Pansy Craze Culture Ball culture Grand Ducal Council of San Francisco Hot Peaches International Drag Day Tranimal Trannyshack Shows Battle of the Seasons Best in Drag Show Drag pageantry A Drag Queen Christmas La Femme Magnifique International Pageant Haters Roast Miss Continental Miss Gay America Miss Gay USofA Miss'd America San Francisco Drag King Contest Werq the World Wigstock Wild Side Story Groups The AAA Girls After Dark The B-Girlz Cissie and Ada DWV The Fabulous Wonder Twins Frock Destroyers Great Garlic Girls GuiGi Kiki and Herb The Kinsey Sicks Lesburlesque Queentastic Sestre She-Dick Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence Toxice Media Film The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert Hurricane Bianca Hurricane Bianca: From Russia with Hate Kiki Outrageous! Too Outrageous! Paris Is Burning The Queen To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar Trixie Mattel: Moving Parts Television AJ and the Queen The American Music Show The Boulet Brothers' Dragula Call Me Mother Canada's a Drag Cover Girl Drag Heals Drag Queens of London Dragnificent! House of Drag Pose Queen of the Universe Queens RuPaul's Drag Race‎ All Stars Canada Down Under Drag U France Italy Netherlands Philippines Spain The Switch Thailand UK Super Drags The Trixie and Katya Show UNHhhh "Werking Mom" We're Here Other Drag Is Magic Of Drag Kings and the Wheel of Fate Related Cross-dressing Drag Queen Story Hour Gender variance Red dress party Transvestism Category v t e Cross-dressing History Types and practices Transvestism Wartime cross-dressing Crossplay (cosplay) Forced cross-dressing Passing En femme En homme Otokonoko Sissy As performance Breeches role Theatrical travesti Drag Pantomime dame Principal boy Onnagata Khawal Köçek Shirabyōshi Culture Hybristica Cross dressing ball Fantasia Fair Casa Susanna Kottankulangara Festival Womanless wedding Media In film and television In literature In music and opera In animated series Sexuality Transvestic fetishism Dual-role transvestism Autoandrophilia and Autogynephilia People List Sworn virgins Bacha bazi Bacha posh Travesti Wartime cross-dressers Organizations Tri-Ess ABGLT Related articles Bibliography of works on wartime cross-dressing Rebecca Riots Breeching Trousers as women's clothing Gender non-conformance Transgender Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cross-dressing&oldid=1075008088" Categories: Cross-dressing Clothing controversies Hidden categories: CS1 maint: uses authors parameter Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from October 2014 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2021 Commons category link from Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk English expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Afrikaans العربية অসমীয়া বাংলা Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית ქართული Magyar Македонски मराठी Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Русский සිංහල Simple English Српски / srpski Svenska Tagalog Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2022, at 11:13 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement